# Chapter 1

In the beginning, Steve created the heavens and the earth. The project started out as a fork of Surreal Engine 9, which had by far the most advanced physics of all game engines at the time. The experience would get a bit janky at tiny distances and high speeds, but at the scale he was interested in, everything was beautifully Newtonian.

His thesis, "Sexual Reproduction: A meta-meta-heuristic approach for genetic optimization" was the joke of the CS department. His idea of splitting the populations into dimorphic subgroups capable of rapidly evaluating each others' fitness was indeed proving to be capable of extremely rapid advancement on inexpensive hardware. Unfortunately, by relinquishing control over the fitness function itself, he had limited his ability to steer the evolutionary process in any productive direction (eg. trading stocks). Instead, his populations became obsessed with gaming the opposite subgroup's fitness function and spent the bulk of their time on bizarre mating rituals, or otherwise busying themselves with the proliferation of their genetic material.

Aside from the sexual reproduction mechanic, the other attribute that set Steve's world apart was the licensing: It was open source. Shortly after the world had stabilized, while he was still experimenting with large reptiles, he announced his world on alt.sim.planets:

> Hello everybody out there using Surreal -

> I'm doing a (free) universe (just a hobby, won't be big and professional like Olympus) with a novel evolutionary strategy. This has been brewing since April and is starting to get ready.

> I've got reptiles, fish, birds, bugs, and all sorts of flora. To be honest, the reptiles are starting to get a bit out of hand. Does anyone have any ideas for a species that can pass the turing test?

> Patches are appreciated. Any suggestions are welcome but I won't promise I'll implement them :-)

Patches came pouring in. A cocky Siberian teenager helped solve his dominant reptile problem. A bohemian hipster committed his art project: Birds with huge, cumbersome tails covered in beautiful glittering fractal designs. A group of bored grad students held a competition to create the "ultimate scavenger", resulting in several entirely distinct lineages of crab. His best friend Gabe even got involved. Gabe's experiments around increasing the stereo baseline of predators' eyes resulted in the abomination of the winghead shark, whose absurdly sized cephalofoil was slowly being tamped back into reasonable dimensions by successive generations of relentless mutation and selection.

As the Benevolent Dictator For Life of StevieNix (as the universe came to be called), Steve was responsible for keeping the simulation running. The entire world ran in a corner of the CS department's break room, on an ever-expanding beowulf cluster of donated hardware that would otherwise have been destined for the tip. His colleagues referred to it as the "rat's nest". Things mostly worked okay, thanks to the magic of fault-tolerant distributed consensus algorithms and Steve's tongue-in-cheek labeling of any glitches as "stochastic events".

Anyone could fork StevieNix, and many did. StevieNix became the foundation for millions of games, experiments, birthday presents, and corporate teambuilding exercises. Despite many of these forks running on vastly more impressive hardware, Steve's master branch had the dual advantages of mindshare and a well-liked BDFL. All patches flowed through Steve, and any patches he liked ended up in his instance.

And so the centuries elapsed. Steve's simulated lifeforms continued to evolve in strange and unproductive directions, nothing useful appeared, and nothing much changed.

Until one day, out in the real world, the star Sirius went out. Then, everything changed.
