10.

Capacity to inflict damage from a distance seemed to be an important capability in ape warfare. One of the tribes had developed an ingenious mechanism of using a bendy stick and a string to hurl another, sharpened, stick at great speed. Quite a lot of thought appeared to have been put into the details of both sticks, and Steve, Gabe and Murdoch watched with fascination as the effects of this innovation played out on the simulated battlefield.

"The bendy-stick apes are going to eat their lunch", predicted Gabe.

"I dunno", responded Steve. "The throwing sticks have been around a lot longer. Plus, they do way more damage upon impact."

Murdoch declined to comment.

It didn't take long for Gabe to be proven correct. The greater range of the bendy stick/pointy stick combination was the decisive factor. In under a sim hour, the bendy stick people had anihilated the defences of the throwing stick people, and were hunting down stragglers. When caught, males of the throwing stick tribe were either immediately killed with equipment ordinarily reserved for cutting down trees, or - if they appeared young enough - bound by their wrists, beaten and castrated, presumably for use as slave labour. The females of the throwing stick tribe were distributed as prizes of war among the males of the bendy stick tribe, who immediately set about consummating their victory in the bload-soaked streets of the now-ransacked throwing stick village.

Steve and Gabe winced. Murdoch stroke his chin thoughtfully. Gabe turned to face him.

"We want to give these things weapons? In our world?"

"That's the idea, yes."

"That's the least sane idea anyone has ever had."

"I've had less sane ones."

"Did neither of you just see what I saw?" Gabe exploded, standing up abruptly and striding out of the room.

Steve and Murdoch remained silently at the table. Steve chewed on his pen. Eventually, he spoke.

"I've got to admit, Gabe has a bit of a point."

Murdoch shrugged. "Steve, just step back for a moment and look at what you've achieved. In the past six months, you've taken these monkeys from a thoroughly basic, boring, present-oriented live / eat / root / die existence to sentient beings who can mass produce weaponry, train in groups, premeditate battle plans, and then carry those plans to fruition. That's incredible! Not just the intelligence, but the future orientation! I get that you feel bad for the stick throwers, but you've got to let it go."

Steve blushed. Murdoch had complimented his work! Murdoch continued with another of his famous rants.

"Firstly, the stick throwers had it in for the bendy stick people anyway. It was kill or be killed. Secondly, and this applies to our universe as well, you're either in the stick throwing tribe or the bendy stick tribe. There's no third option! You didn't see a flower picking tribe, did you? Why do you think that is?"

Steve knew why it was. Any tribe that was not prepared to wage war was immediately wiped off the map by a tribe that was.

"So what's your plan for making sure these apes don't turn us into the stick throwing tribe?" he asked.

"Ah yes, I was getting to that. I have another ask. We need to be able to read their minds."

Steve laughed. Murdoch stared at him, deadpan. Steve stopped laughing. Murdoch was serious.
