11. Players and Non-Players

When Steve received the design brief, it was even worse than he'd thought. Not only was he supposed to read their minds, but he had to influence them as well! He strode around his office, fuming. Gabe, who had composed himself since the previous conversation, sat on the couch and lent a sympathetic ear.

"Changing requirements!" Steve cried. "Every goddamn time! Why can't people just figure out what they want and ask for it up front? Why do they have to ask for one thing, then ask for something completely different once that first thing is delivered?"

"Oh, I know", agreed Gabe, who didn't really (no one ever asked him for anything).

"These minds are insanely complicated! We're talking billions of parallel matrix operations, all bathed in a sea of hormones! It's a miracle that it does anything! How's anyone supposed to understand it?"

"I guess he just thinks really highly of you", Gabe offered, consolingly.

Steve slumped into his chair. "It's just impossible. Six months' work, down the drain. I'm going to have to start again from scratch, with this stupid requirement baked into the universe somehow."

"Surely not! There must be some way to hack it in! So the problem is that the thought space is too big, right?"

"Yes. Way, way, way too big."

As an astronomer, Gabe had some familiarity with big things. The space of potential research questions was endless. But the space of research questions that would attract grant funding was substantially smaller.

"Can you focus on just one part of the brain?"

"They think with their whole brains, Gabe. And their bodies too."

"What if they didn't?"

"Huh?"

"What if you forced all their thoughts through a bottleneck, and just figured out how to understand and manipulate that bottleneck?"
