# 13. Oracular Spectacular

The first attempts at alignment memes were extremely crude. In an effort to piggyback off the apes' existing familial bonds, the most common approach was to pretend to be an ape's ancestor while speaking into its head. The revelations were typically of the form, "I am the spirit of your great grandfather! I want your tribe to kill that tribe over there and take their females." The apes were often happy to oblige. There were, however, many practical problems with this approach.

Firstly, one of the most common responses was "prove it." This was typically offered by the non-player characters to the player, if it wasn't first offered by the player character to the contestant. Most ancestral alignment attempts either failed at this point, or were adopted not on the basis of the memes' merits, but on the basis of the tribe's gullibility. Unfortunately, such tribes were typically dim-witted and tended to lose their resultant military campaigns.

Furthermore, it was difficult to keep track of all the great grandfathers. There were numerous instances in which players realized that they had neighbouring tribes' great grandfathers speaking into their heads, frequently resulting in exorcism and/or banishment from the tribe.

The biggest problem, however, was the difficulty in creating durable memes that spread to neighbouring tribes. Put simply, no one cared about what other people's great grandfathers had to say. The only way for an ancestral alignment meme to really gain traction was through repeated military success and extremely aggressive reproductive tactics.

Eventually, therefore, the contestants moved towards more abstract memes - generic gods, applicable to wide swaths of the population. This was easier to spread, easier to keep track of, and granted them much wider leeway in "proving it".

One team focused on "proving it" through oracles. Their basic setup was to speak visions of the future into chosen players, and inspire those players to share the visions to a skeptical audience. After the vision had been shared and sufficient time had elapsed, the team would intervene and make the prophecies come true. Typical vision/intervention pairs were simple for the team to implement, but impressive for the audience - eg. mysterious deaths, or victories on the battlefield. When questioned about the sources of the visions, the oracles would credit "the gods", and word would spread rapidly and enthusiastically.

After a few generations, a number of tribes had spent their lives fully immersed in the mythology and were indeed willing to kill and die on behalf of "the gods". Upon the loyal tribesmembers' expirations, they were saved away as "aligned, useful for hand-to-hand combat with primitive weaponry". Steve wasn't convinced that this really qualified as "useful in an interstellar war", but it was exciting to see progress.

The strategy was quickly and widely adopted. All manner of gods were dreamed up. The competition soon transitioned from a contest of memes, to a contest of attention-grabbing divine interventions. New problems arose - while big impressive interventions were effective at driving meme adoption, loyalty to any specific meme was fickle and liable to be replaced the next time an opposing team intervened. Yields of "saved souls" started to decline again, which pushed teams to try even bigger interventions. It was when teams started annihilating other's tribes with fire and brimstone raining down from the sky, that Murdoch decided to step in and place restrictions on the magnitudes of the interventions.

"Every intervention now costs a number of credits corresponding to the intervention's computational cost" he started. "You each get a hundred credits for every useful aligned AI you save. Credits are fungible and transferable. You each get one million credits to start. Go."

This utterly transformed the game. For the first time, it was possible for contestants to lose - once a team went bankrupt, they were out.
