# 15. Hardball

Despite optimizing the VR intervention to be as cheap as possible, Steve and Gabe were still far, far short of the credits necessary to execute the plan. They needed leverage. Together, they humbly approached the one contestant with credits to space.

Allen nearly laughed them out of his office.

"Let me make sure I'm understanding this one hundred percent correctly", he snorted. "You two idiots are on the cusp of bankruptcy. Your plan is to perform a last-ditch intervention to unify your tribes and undermine my meme - the most successful meme ever to grace this sim - and you want me to fund it?"

"Your meme is on the verge of collapse anyway", snapped Steve. "You're stretched too thin. Your yields are decelerating. People bought into your stupid incestuous gods when things were improving all the time, but now they're just paying lip service."

Allen stopped laughing. He wasn't used to being spoken to in that manner, and couldn't say he enjoyed it very much.

"What do you propose?" he asked, sternly.

Steve brought himself back into pitch mode. "You're a businessman, right?"

"Cut the bullshit, Steve."

"Shares. We'll give you ten percent of all credits we earn off this meme in exchange for your investment."

"And what size investment would that be?"

Steve named his number. Allen burst out laughing again. "You do realize what kind of valuation you've given yourself there, right? To have any hope of generating ROI, this would have not only have to kill my cash cow, but also go on to be the most successful meme in all of StevieNix history!"

Steve sighed. Gabe looked at his shoes.

"Does that ten percent come with voting rights?" Allen asked.

"No" responded Steve.

Allen clicked his pen a few times.

"I want eighty percent."

Steve and Gabe looked at each other in shock. At eighty percent, they would effectively be working for Allen.

"Absolutely not", Steve responded.

"Your other option is bankruptcy", Allen said plainly.

"My other option", Steve fired back coldly, "is sabotage."

The hundred thousand year old steely-eyed tycoon across the table leaned forwards and rested on his elbows. "Eternal Spring", he enunciated slowly and clearly, "is extremely proud of our commitment to quality. You can live for as long as you like, secure in your knowledge that our product is six nines reliable. That's ninety nine point nine nine nine nine percent reliable. Do you have any idea how hard it is to make anything that reliable?"

Steve and Gabe sat in silence, unsure of how to respond or where Allen was going with this.

"Of course", Allen continued, "there is still that point zero zero zero one percent." He looked at Steve pointedly, then shifted his glare over to Gabe, and finally back to Steve.

Steve felt stupid. In retrospect, attempting to hardball the man responsible for keeping him alive was a very bad idea.

"We'll settle for forty percent", piped in Gabe, unprompted and without authorization.

"Sixty-five", responded Allen plainly. "That's my final offer. Take it, or get the hell out of my office."

Within a couple of hours, a contract had been signed and the credits had been transferred. Steve and Gabe had been humiliated, but were back in the game.
