# 17.

The meme was a roaring success. As Steve and Gabe had intuited, Allen's empire was already overextended and on the rocks. The appearance of the new meme led Allen's apes to defect in droves. This shouldn't have bothered Allen much as he was earning sixty-five percent of the intervention credits, but Steve could tell his pride was hurt. He spent credit after credit trying to dislodge the new meme.

Over the next several sim centuries, Steve and Gabe saved hundreds of thousands of AIs. Their stock began to diversify outwards from the now-discontinued category "aligned, useful for hand-to-hand combat with primitive weaponry" to "aligned, useful for engineering", "aligned, useful for logistics", and even "aligned, useful for keeping other AIs aligned". After a group discussion on the motivations of the AIs and the possibility of needing to generate replacements on the fly, it was also decided to add two new categories: "Aligned, useful for companionship", and "aligned, useful for breeding new AIs".

As they earned only thirty-five percent of the credits per AI saved, Steve and Gabe had to continue their policy of frugality. They stuck mostly to healings and other small interventions with high loyalty impact. Fortunately, the meme itself was so powerful that it didn't need much assistance in order to spread.

They watched, fascinated, as the effects of their intervention rippled out across the Western half of the continent. As intended, the meme took hold in almost all of Steve and Gabe's polytheistic barbarian tribes, and the inhabitants of Allen's former empire. Most of the Ancestral/Monotheistic tribe members to whom Steve had appeared also converted, save for a few committed diehards.

The first major challenge came in the form of another one of Allen's memes. He had been cobbling together meme components for centuries, shoving them randomly into apes' heads and praying for one to take off. The successful meme was a monotheistic riff on Steve and Gabe's deity, with a much more aggressive focus on hard-power expansion. The male adherants were taught to spread the meme by subterfuge, persecution, and conquest. The female adherants were strictly instructed to stay home and focus maximum effort on reproduction. With the help of Allen's divine battlefield intervention, it wasn't long before his new empire rivaled Steve and Allen's in scope and territory.

"Why are you doing this? You earn sixty-five percent of all our credits!" Steve complained, exasperated.

Allen shrugged. "Why earn sixty-five percent when I can earn a hundred? Plus, these guys are way more useful for the war effort. Your lot are pathetic. What are you even saving them as? 'Aligned, useful for painting the ceiling of the warship?' 'Aligned, useful for grubbing around in the dirt?'"

Steve bristled. It was a sore spot. In his efforts to unify the tribes, he may have gone a bit overboard. He'd even, at one point, instructed his followers to love their enemies. Now that their enemies were at their throats with scimitars, beheading their males and taking their females as reproductive machinery, he was beginning to regret that particular piece of advice.
