# 18. Reconquista

Memes evolved and spread much faster than genes. Fifty generations was a long time to wait for genetic effects to kick in. Within five generations, Steve and Gabe had lost huge swaths of territory to Allen's new meme. Particularly worrying was the loss of a large peninsula on the Western side of the continent - with Allen's apes already having taken over the East, Steve's remaining apes found themselves sandwiched between a united, hostile front.

"We need to take it back", Gabe said, gesturing at the peninsula.

"How?" asked Steve, coldly tearing a scrap piece of paper in half. "Every time one of his gets saved, he gets a hundred intervention credits. Every time one of ours gets saved, he gets another sixty-five. Player for player, he's earning almost five times as many credits as us. He's got us bent over a barrel. We'll never catch up."

"All that means", responded Gabe optimistically, "is we need to be five times more efficient than him. How hard could that be? He's spending those credits like a drunken pirate."

Steve snorted. It was true. Battles unfolded far too quickly and chaotically for contestants to intervene manually. The only way to change the outcome of a battle without bankrupting oneself on fire and brimstone was to lean heavily on automation.

Allen's battlefield interventions, while effective, were extremely inefficient. They reeked, in Steve's mind, of amateur hour inexperienced contractors. Wounds, for instance, were healed completely with no visible scarring. This was totally unnecessary - grisly scars didn't impede fighting ability. By disregarding aesthetics, he and Gabe could easily heal wounds to a functional degree for a fraction of the cost.

Low-hanging fruit was all over the place - instead of stopping enemy arrows in their tracks, it often sufficed to blow them slightly off course with a well-timed gust of wind. Similarly, guiding their side's projectiles was orders of magnitude more efficient than trying to swing the course of the later fencing stage of the battle. Most efficient would be to minimize physical interventions at all, by providing timely intel to the combatants (eg. "duck!", "behind you!", etc.)

By the time Steve and Gabe finished their pareto-principle-optimized battlefield intervention script, their loyalists had retreated all the way to a tiny region in the North West of the peninsula - cowering and waiting for Allen's apes to finish them off. Steve spent a lot of time in the apes' heads, speaking courage into their hearts and divinely commanding them to reconquer the peninsula. Even he had no idea how long that would take.

The peninsula, which had been lost to Allen's apes over the course of seven sim years, took nearly eight hundred years to reclaim. It was the longest, most arduous military campaign the sim had ever seen. Hundreds of thousands of souls were saved on either side. Military technology advanced by leaps and bounds.

The entire alignment team gathered to watch the final battle unfold. Steve hadn't seen some of them since the initial meeting when the competition was announced. While he had been focused on Allen, other teams had built huge, aligned empires in the far reaches of the globe. Murdoch, whom Steve assumed had been spending his time in the hardware division, also stopped by.

"What do they call those things?" he asked, gesturing to the screen where Steve's apes were rolling out huge, heavy metal tubes on wheels.

"Cannons", responded Steve. "They've finally figured out how to use chemical energy to inflict real damage."

Murdoch watched, fascinated, as the apes loaded black powder and a metal ball into a "cannon" and ignited it. The force of the explosion rocked the cannon backwards, and flung the metal ball at wicked speeds straight into the stone fortifications surrounding Allen's remaining loyalists. The stone crumbled.

"Very impressive", Murdoch nodded. "They need to make them smaller though. More maneuverable. Like the bendy sticks, but with better range."

Steve wasn't sure about that, but was confident that memetic evolution would make it happen if it really was an improvement.

Within a short while, Allen's loyal supporters surrendered. A groan echoed throughout the audience - the contestants had been expecting a glorious last stand, with mass casualties on each side. Credits had been wagered. Drinks had been ordered. Instead, the apes set about negotiating a peace. Boring!

--

After the event, Steve heard a knock at his door. He opened it, and found Allen.

"Can I come in?" he asked.

Steve let him in.

Allen flopped down in one of Steve's chairs. "Well done", he said, genuinely. "That was one hell of a campaign. I never thought your monkeys would be able to pull that off."

"Thanks", Steve responded. "Your guys fought well" he added, generously.

"Yeah, up until the end. Dunno what happened there. Folded like a bunch of pansies" grumbled Allen. "Probably need to double down on the afterlife promises. It feels like these apes have forgotten about the point of it all."

Steve didn't know what to say, so he chewed on the lid of a pen and waited for Allen to explain what he'd shown up for.

"I'd like to make you a deal", opened Allen.

"Your turn this time, eh?" asked Steve.

"It's a good one, trust me."

"Go on, then."

"I'd like to offer you the chance to buy me out."

Steve was dumbfounded. "Buy you out? Why?"

Allen sighed. "I'm old. I can't take all this conflict of interest, fighting against myself. It's exhausting, you know."

This sounded plausible enough to Steve. The campaign had been gruelling for him, he couldn't imagine the toll it must have taken on Allen. "What do you propose?"

"You get your sixty-five percent back, and tell your chimps to go fight someone else for a while. In return, I get a pile of credits and I'm out of your hair."

It sounded too good to be true. "How big of a pile of credits?" Steve asked.

Allen named an absolutely ludicrous number. Steve laughed.

"Come on, dude. You know I don't have anywhere near that many credits. It would take me centuries to raise it."

"That's okay", responded Allen. "I can loan them to you."

"But you don't have that many credits either!" objected Steve. "No one does."

"It doesn't actually matter", pointed out Allen. "I've already had my lawyers draw up the contract. It says that I've loaned you the credits, and you tan take as long as you like to pay the loan back. Interest will get charged on any unpaid balance, and obviously there are penalties for default - not that you need to worry about that! All you need to do is make the minimum payment each month, which will be easy now that you'll be keeping 100% of the credits you earn."

"I'll need to talk to Gabe", responded Steve.

Allen studied his fingernails patiently as Steve tried to reach Gabe on the phone. Gabe wasn't answering.

"You know", Allen yawned, "this is a very good deal. In fact, I'm starting to wonder if I was too generous. Maybe I'll feel differently in the morning." He started to push himself out of the chair.

"Wait!" snapped Steve, and took the contract out of Allen's hand. Having to give up 65% of credits to his competitor had been awful. He'd do just about anything to be free of it.

Steve skim read the contract, nodded his head, and signed it. "There you go" he said, handing the contract back triumphantly.

Allen took the contract and checked the signature box. "Pleasure doing business with you, Steve." He smiled, shook Steve's hand, and let himself out.

--

"You signed WHAT?" asked Gabe, incredulously.

"We finally got our ownership back!" fired back Steve. "I thought you'd be happy!"

"Did you even read this thing?" asked Gabe, waving the contract around. "Have you forgotten how to do math? Look here, multiply this interest rate by this loan amount. What do you get?"

Steve did the math in his head, and then did it again a different way to double-check. It came out to a large number.

"We're going to be paying him more than we're paying now, and that's just in interest alone! We're not even talking about paying down the principal. And don't get me started on these default provisions! If we ever start missing payments, we're absolutely stuffed!"

Steve took the contract in his hands, sat down, and studied it. Perhaps he had been a bit hasty. "Okay", he conceded, "maybe I should have negotiated these numbers a bit."

"Or waited until morning!"

"Yes, yes. Anyway, this should be fine, right? Now that we don't have to spend every credit we have intervening in these peninsula battles."

Gabe shook his head. "You haven't checked the map this morning, have you?"

"Why?"

"Eight hundred years of holy war has made their blood run with piss and vinegar."

"Huh?"

"They got bored. Now they're sailing off to find new lands to conquor."

"Where?"

Gabe gestured at the other supercontinent. "There."

Steve smacked the contract on his chair and swore. The habitable regions of StevieNix were, mirroring his own world, divided up into two supercontinents, one minor continent, and a bunch of islands. The supercontinents were themselves composed of smaller continents, linked by tiny land bridges. Other than an aborted attempt by one of his polytheistic death-in-battle-glorifying tribes a few centuries ago, there had been no contact between the populations of the two supercontinents since before the meme war had begun.

He zoomed in on his apes in their wooden ships. He noticed one of the apes, reading aloud to the others from a book he recognized as being a collection of writings on his meme. He laughed.

"They're really going to spread the good word, aren't they?"

"Sure looks like it", Gabe responded.

Steve chuckled again. "Bless them. Well, here's hoping they can do it without any help."
