# 19. The Origins of Islander Individualism

One property of evolution that makes it difficult to engineer is that, once the conditions for it have been created, it will happen whether you like it or not. In any system with selection and imperfect replication, evolution is inevitable. This was true in genetics, and doubly true in memetics - where ideas could replicate and mutate much faster than in biological systems. It was thus that, during a few short centuries when Steve and Gabe's attention had been focused on the peninsula, a strange meme took off completely of its own accord on an island in the North Sea.

Up until that point, the basic unit of ape concern was the tribe. Nomadic tribes shared their flocks; agricultural tribes shared their land. The fruits of the labour of the tribesmembers were shared equitably - from each, according to their ability, to each, according to their need. Tribes traded with each other, but the resultant capital was rarely allowed to accumulate in the hands of any particular tribesmember.

This had many benefits - it allowed for a degree of specialization, eg. one ape could specialize in field-tilling, while another specialized in hunting, and a less physically vigorous ape could spend its time instilling knowledge and moral virtue in the next generation. It also formed a useful substrate upon which larger, more complex civilizations could be built - the millions-strong societies that Allen and Steve had managed to construct thus far were essentially networks of such tribes.

What's more, the tribal structure was an evolutionarily stable strategy. Were a tribe to disband, the most likely outcomes for the members would be starvation or violent death, as they found themselves shunned or predated upon by neighbouring tribes. Similarly, were a tribe to grow too large, it would become overwhelmed by coordination problems and freeloaders exploiting the communal resource-sharing nature. Past a certain point, it was much more effective to split into two friendly but distinct tribes.

There was an optimal tribal size, and all of the contestants accepted it as given that tribes of that size would be the basic unit of ape society forever. They didn't even realize that tribes were simply one of many possible societal organization memes until, for whatever reason, a new meme took hold on the island. The new meme caused the apes to forget about tribes altogether.

Perhaps it was due to an unusally long period of peace, a careless whisper from one of the gods, or an inevitable interpretation of the anti-tribal message embedded deep within Steve's meme. Whatever the cause, enough islanders stopped caring about tribal identity simultaneously, that a new societal organization meme was born - one based around individual apes.

In the new meme, resources and labour were owned by individuals - not tribes. The goods and services produced by individuals were traded in markets - and if an ape's extended family member wanted access to their goods and services, they were made to pay market price. The sole remnant of the tribe was the nuclear family - two parents and their children, who would be unceremoniously excused from the parents' home when they hit a suitable working age (eg. twelve) and expected to support themselves by offering their labour to the market.

It was a cold, brutal meme. Many starved. The result, however, was unprecedented economic output.

The markets allowed for an investment in technology that had never been economically viable in a tribe. Regardless of the long-term efficiency gains, tribes could very rarely afford squandering any of their apes to tinkering on, say, innovative agricultural equipment. Any ape so inclined would be labeled a "freeloading nerd" and sent out into the field with a hoe and the threat of communally-administered punishment if any more time-wasting were to be detected. Any technology developed in spite of these unfavourable conditions would rarely spread beyond the tribe, and would be lost if any single generation didn't contain at least one ape who learned to perfectly replicate it, while avoiding suspicion of freeloading nerdiness.

The individualist meme solved this problem. By outsourcing the freeloader problem to the natural threats of bankruptcy and starvation, apes no longer felt the need to punish tinkerers whose economic output wasn't immediately obvious. At the same time, any smart hardworking ape could save up capital and eventually afford to take a sabbatical to develop their innovative ideas. If the idea worked out, the ape could sell the resultant technology on the market and personally reap the rewards. With sufficient rewards, the ape could afford to hire other apes to develop, manufacture, and market the technology farther. Thus, over course of several centuries, the level of technology on the island steadily increased while the share of the population employed in full-time subsistence farming declined proportionally.

In the tribal society, it had been widely believed that the accumulation of capital was akin to the accumulation of power. This was inaccurate. In truth, the accumulation of capital was the accumulation of time. It was a harsh world, with wolves at the door and starvation round the corner, but a little bit of excess capital could keep them at bay for a short while. A lot of excess capital could keep them away from a number of families for quite some time - enough to form a shared venture, perhaps to fail, but occasionally to succeed - and that success resulted in improved quality of life for all.

It was thus that, despite its harsh and indifferent nature, the individualist meme outcompeted tribal collectivism all over the island. Eventually, when the islanders decided to venture outwards, their technological and memetic advantage allowed them to conquor half the globe. Unfortunately, buried deep within in this meme was the seed of their own destruction.
