# Chapter 2

Stars aren't supposed to "go out". The astronomy community was concerned. They stared at the spot where Sirius was supposed to be. It wasn't there. They appointed one of their number to dust off his telescope and scan the region. Nothing detectable. Strange.

The global astronomy community consisted of so few people that all notable members would comfortably fit inside a hole-in-the-wall Vietnamese restaurant, if they felt so inclined. They didn't, and scheduled a meeting online. After twenty minutes of technical difficulties, people talking over each other, and attempts to converse with members who had clearly joined the call for appearances' sake only to turn off their cameras and walk away from their desks, Gabe was regretting his decision not to push harder for the restaurant. At least he could have gotten pho.

The following action items were recorded:

- Update star charts (Gabe)
- Press release?
  - Note: Need reassuring messaging, avoid causing panic. Assemble subcommittee. (Gabe)
- Schedule follow-up meeting to brainstorm theories (Gabe)

A significant fraction of attendees also privately recorded the following action item:

- Grant proposal (me)

The astrology community was substantially larger and better organized. They already had a well-established theory around the disappearance of stars, and the extinguishing of Sirius was widely and exitedly interpreted to herald an era of change driven by inner reflection. The general public learned about the disappearance of Sirius through their horoscopes, long before the astronomers' press release subcommittee had any hope of being assembled. As astronomers neither read horoscopes nor contributed anything of value to the astrology community, the intellectual output of the two groups remained isolated until Gabe happened to bump into his upstairs neighbour.

"Gabe! So good to see you! How have you been?"

"Oh, hey!" Gabe responded, rapidly flitting through reasons to exit the conversation. "Yeah, pretty good, tired mostly."

His neighbour nodded knowingly. "Cancer, right?"

Gabe jolted a little. "What? I sure hope not!"

"But you were born mid-July, no?"

Gabe relaxed and let out a sigh. "Right. Yes, Cancer."

"I knew it. You're always so empathetic. I can tell by how deeply connected you are to your emotions. I can always tell, you know. You couldn't be anything but a Cancer."

Gabe resigned himself to the conversation. "So what's up with Cancer these days?"

His neighbour nodded again and furrowed his brow. "Mmm, yes. Cancer has a strong association with Sirius. The darkening will have profound implications. Sirius is your beacon, your source of spritual guidance-"

"I guess you could say it's pretty serious, eh?"

His neighbour glared at him. "Whenever a star darkens, it's pretty serious."

Gabe blinked.

"Whenever a star darkens?"

His neighbour nodded, more quickly this time.

"How often does a star darken?"

"Hard to say, maybe every century or so? It seems to be happening more often lately, must be something going on in the heavens."

Gabe stood rooted to the spot, bag half slung off his shoulder. He knew better than to take his neighbour seriously, but it didn't seem like he was joking.

"What was the last star to darken?"

"Procyon, around eighty years ago. Don't you remember that? We were all thrilled, Procyon had been causing disharmony for centuries."

Gabe slowly unfroze and started shuffling to his apartment. "Yes, Procyon. Yup. First Procyon, now Sirius. Right. OK, good talking to you!" He offered a distracted, halfhearted wave, opened his door, and practically ran to his computer.
