# 20. The Faustian Bargain

"Looks like they didn't need our help", remarked Gabe.

Steve laughed. Six hundred of his piss-and-vinegar-blooded peninsula apes had just defeated an empire of millions on the other side of the planet. He wasn't even sure who they were aligned with. From what he'd seen, it had been an absolutely unhinged meme. It seemed to involve performing a sacrifice ritual, which involved cutting out the heart of an ape and throwing its lifeless body down a flight of stairs, on an industrial scale. Weird.

With very little encouragement, Steve and Gabe's apes set about converting their new subjects to a (somewhat perverted but still acceptable) version of Steve's alignment meme. "Look at them go!" beamed Steve.

"This is so much easier than that peninsula war" agreed Gabe. "Hopefully the Dysoners fall over as easily as these idiots."

"Be nice!" objected Steve. "Our guys got steamrolled too, remember? Sometimes, it just isn't your day."

Gabe nodded and changed the subject. "Looks like your gamble is paying off" he said, pointing to the credit counter. It was ticking upwards, at the fastest rate they'd ever seen.

"Yup, we'll have that debt paid off in no time!" Steve gloated.

They drank a toast to their success and settled in to watch the fun. Over the next sim century, with only a small amount of divine assistance, the peninsula apes conquered and converted a huge fraction of the new continent.

Then, the islanders decided to join the fun. That's when things started, ever so slightly, to derail.

While the peninsula apes had performed their conquest with dual motives - economic gain and religious fervour - the islanders largely cared only about the former. Very minimal efforts were made to convert the apes they encountered to Steve's meme - the islanders preferred to maintain a degree of separation, limiting their interactions to either trades, or forced displacement of tribes that proved relatively inept at battle. Their technological superiority, combined with (and born out of) a cold, unsympathetic culture of excellence or death that only a society completely lacking in tribal safety net could produce, meant that "relatively inept at battle" accurately described the majority of rival societies they encountered.

In short order, the apes from the island in the north sea controlled a quarter of the world's land mass.

With the vast colonies, came unprecedented prosperity. Lucre flowed back to the island, or amassed in the hands of islanders' descendents in the colonies. Rather than spend the capital glorifying Steve, as the peninsula apes did, the islanders could not help but invest it. Capital begat innovation, which in turn begat capital. The pace of technological improvement exploded.

Not a single aspect of an islander ape's existence was spared from the innovations of hungry tinkerers and their wealthy backers, gagging for the opportunity to ease the ape's burdens in exchange for their money. From fertilizing the fields and crossing the continents to cleaning themselves post-defecation, every moment of every day was sliced, diced, analyzed and optimized for inefficiencies that may be profitably reduced by goods and services.

The quality of life in islander society improved so rapidly that the common ape in one generation enjoyed luxuries unimaginable to the richest apes of two generations past. Agriculture was transformed to an almost unrecognizable degree - subsistence farming was abandoned, as farms were consolidated into vast enterprises, tended by tiny crews operating massive machinery. Apes began to congregate in huge cities, fed by industrialized supply chains stretching around the world, shuttled around by engines - first powered by steam, then internal combustion, and finally electricity. The technologies and the individualist meme spread throughout the world, to societies the islanders had never even heard of.

With the industrial revolution, came a population boom. In a few short centuries, the number of apes in StevieNix increased tenfold. The sim slowed down. Glitches began to appear. Steve found himself spending so much time adding hardware and fixing scaling issues, that he had no time left to monitor the status of his meme.

It was only when a very distressed Gabe came to find him in the datacenter that he learned anything had gone wrong.

"What's up?" he asked, looking up from the blade server he was replacing.

"They've stopped believing", responded Gabe. "We can't make the loan repayments. Default provisions are kicking in."
