# 22. God's diner

Russell woke up in a 1950s-style diner. There were four mugs of steaming hot coffee and four slices of peach pie on the table. Seated next to him in the booth was his roommate Victor, who was studying the menu. Across from them was a young lady whom he didn't recognize, but immediately rated in the 97th percentile of attractiveness. He instinctively avoided meeting her eyes and looked aimlessly around the diner.

"Is this a dream?" asked the woman.

"I don't think so" responded Victor, continuing to study the menu. "You can tell if you're in a dream by looking at written words and looking away. If they're still the same when you look back, you're not dreaming. This menu" he added, finally looking up and at the other two booth occupants, "has been claiming that you can buy a cheseburger for twenty-two cents this whole time."

"Oh", responded the young lady. "I thought you were supposed to pinch yourself." She gave her forearm a solid pinch and grimaced slightly. It left a mark.

"I'm not sure if there's any evidence to support-" started Victor, before Russell cut him off.

"Twenty-two cents for a cheeseburger? Let me see that menu."

The menu was drawn in a vintage Americana style, which felt out of place in their home town of Perth, Western Australia. The cheeseburger came with fries, and was indeed listed as costing twenty-two cents. Other options were a milkshake (20 cents), a grilled cheese sandwich (25 cents), and a blue plate special (roast beef and two sides, ninety-nine cents). After memorizing a few items, Russell mustered the nerve to glance up at the lady across the table, before flicking his eyes back down to the menu. The items were unchanged.

"I don't remember coming in here" said the woman, picking up her coffee mug and studying the bottom of it for clues. Russell looked around the diner. Apart from them, it was deserted. Just as he rose from the booth to go investigate further, the front door opened and a bell dinged.

A middle-aged man stepped through the door. He was of average height, slightly balding, with glasses and a skinnyfat build. He walked with confidence, and smiled as he saw the trio.

"Hello! Thank you so much for joining me. Please, sit down!" he said, gesturing Russell back into the booth.

"Thanks", responded Russell. He sat down, confused and nervous.

The man slid into the booth next to the young lady. He marveled at each of their faces in turn, as they sat in awkward silence. "I'm so very pleased to meet you", he opened.

"Thanks", responded Victor. "I'm Victor." He stuck his hand out across the table. The man looked at it and cocked his head in confusion, before his face brightened in a moment of realization. He grasped Victor's hand in both of his and shook it vigorously. "Very pleased to meet you, Victor!"

The young lady introduced herself next, and was also subjected to the enthusiastic handshake. Her name was Stacy.

Finally, Russell it was Russell's turn. Having witnessed the previous two handshakes, he was more prepared than the others, but still found himself wondering if it was possible for a handshake to dislocate a shoulder.

After the handshakes were complete, the three original booth occupants looked at the curious stranger expectantly. He smiled a big toothy grin and stared back at the three of them in turn.

"And you are?" prompted Stacy.

"Oh yes", responded Steve. "I'm God."
