# 23 The calling

"We don't believe in God," responded Russell.

"I do," objected Stacy. "You're not exactly what I pictured though."

"Ah, right" replied Steve, and transformed into an old man with a long white beard, who looked as if he'd been copied directly off the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel. "How's that?"

Russell, Victor and Stacy all jumped and recoiled as much as the diner booth allowed.

"Yes, that's more what I had in mind" responded Stacy, softly.

"It's just an avatar," Steve explained. "I have loads. Check it out!"

He transformed into a tall, handsome young man with long flowing hair. The three jumped again.

"Too real. Go back to the last one" tried Victor.

Steve transformed back into the old man. "Believe me yet?"

"I think I'm tripping balls," responded Victor. Russell agreed. Steve sighed.

Stacy was coping with the situation quite well. "Why did you bring us here?" she asked.

Steve took a drink from his coffee mug and sighed. Then, noting the confused looks on the other occupants' faces, he tried to explain himself. "I actually have a real cup of coffee in front of me. The sim tracks it. This entire diner," he gestured around, "is modeled around my office. That way, I can sit at my desk and drink my coffee while talking to you guys. Pretty cool, eh?"

The explanation didn't seem to help. His audience seemed even more confused than before. Steve thought for a bit and remembered the actual question.

"Ah yes. Why I brought you here. Okay, allow me to explain."

Over the next sim hour, Steve spoke and his guests listened. He told them almost the entire backstory - including the creation of StevieNix, the Dysoners, and the meme competition - skipping over only his financial arrangement with Allen and the cause of his current strife. His guests nodded along and absorbed the explanation, stopping him only occasionally to ask questions. He was very pleased with how receptive they were to the news that they were simulated lifeforms, bred to be psychotic murderers, and aligned via a meme competition that rendered their minds as toys and souls as trophies for the gods. He'd chosen the trio well.

When he was done, Stacy spoke up. "You still haven't answered the question."

"Hmm?" asked Steve.

"Why you brought us here," prompted Victor.

"Ah, yes. I need your help." Steve continued his exposition, explaining the two thousand year arc of his meme, culminating in the explosion of technology and population, before peaking in recent decades and beginning a decline that appeared to be terminal.

"So, the problem is that no one believes in you any more so you can't harvest any more of us for your interstellar army?" asked Stacy, in an almost annoyed manner.

"That's one problem. The bigger issue is the birth rates," Steve responded. "You guys were just on the cusp of being useful. How many sword-wielding true believers do you think we need in a space war? We need AIs - er, people - who can fly spaceships, remotely control weapons systems, repair absurdly complicated machines. You were almost finally at that level of technological aptitude, and now you're going to piss it all away by refusing to breed? You're going to let yourself get overrun by Allen's incestuous goat herders? Undo four thousand years of civilizational progress because you forgot how to reproduce?"

Stacy backed down. Steve was clearly upset, and although he hadn't explained who Allen was, it was clear from the context that he and Steve had some sort of personal beef. Best not to probe.

"So," paraphrased Russell, "you want us to jumpstart a high-fertility, high technology society."

"Filled with people who love you so much that they'll die for you" continued Victor.

The cloud of Steve's annoyance evaporated from his face. "You got it!" he smiled.

"How are we supposed to do that?" asked Stacy.

"I'm sure you'll figure it out! The three of you have been chosen carefully," responded Steve. He turned to Russell. "It starts with you. When you wake up, ssh into this IP address and start playing around."

He handed Russell a card, upon which was printed a long string of random-looking letters and numbers. Russell set about committing it to memory.

"Good luck! Call me if you need anything" Steve continued. He then reached up above his eyes, fiddled with empty space for a moment, and disappeared.

The three guests looked at each other in shock. After a length of time, Russell relaxed enough to want to try his coffee. He raised his mug to his lips, and the world went black.
