# 24. The Particle Computer

Russell awoke with a start. He had had the strangest, most vivid dream. Weird.

It was Saturday, so he tried to roll over and go back to sleep. His late-night twitter-scrolling habit had rendered him in a constant state of sleep debt, and he relied fruitlessly on his weekend lie-ins to pay down the principal.

Victor was already in the kitchen when he made it downstairs, scooping pre-ground coffee beans into the french press. "Good morning, sunshine!" he said.

"Good morning," groaned Russell in response.

"Coffee?"

"Yes please."

As he was pouring the hot water into the press, Victor made an attempt at conversation. "I had this crazy dream last night."

"Hmm?" grunted Russell.

"You were in it."

"Ah, yeah?" responded Russell, leaning his chair back on its hind legs. He generally disliked hearing about other people's dreams, but it was different when he was in them.

"Yeah, we were in a diner together with this really pretty girl and a crazy guy."

Russell tipped his chair over.

--

After establishing that they had shared the exact same dream, Russell and Victor went over every detail they could remember. The cheap prices on the menu, the coffee and pie, Stacy's appearance and demeanour. They discussed Steve's transformations and revelations at length. As avid gamers, the idea of them being characters in a sim, surrounded by NPCs, wasn't that jarring.

Finally, Victor remembered a critical detail. "He gave you a card," he reminded Russell.

Russell remembered. The random string of letters and numbers. An IPv6 address. The address came back to him effortlessly.

"I need a computer," he responded.

They grabbed the french press and their mugs, and practically ran upstairs to Russell's room.

--

Russell wasn't sure how he was going to log into the server - he hadn't been given a username and password. He fired up a terminal and pointed a remote shell at the IPv6 address. To his shock, he logged in automatically. Somehow, his public key had been installed on the server already. Spooky.

He was greeted with a standard UNIX shell. In his home directory, he found a number of directories containing source code, documentation, and tons of garbage-looking data that he couldn't make heads or tails of. At the top level, he found a file labeled README.txt. He opened it and started reading.

```
Welcome Russell!

This server is a MHI-10 Particle Computer. It is quite a different computer to the transistor-based ones you're used to, but can perform many of the same operations.

I have taken the liberty of implementing bash and python interpreters, so you should feel at home. In doc/, you will find a manual describing the assembly language for this class of machine. It should be all you need to get started.

Best of luck! Call me if you need anything.

-Steve
```

Intrigued, Russell downloaded a simple python script that calculates digits of pi. He ran it, asking for the millionth digit. The answer was returned in an instant. He ran it again, asking for the billionth digit. The answer was also returned instantly. After trying for the trillionth digit and receiving the answer in as much time as it'd taken for the millionth, Russell stopped in awe. The calculation should have taken weeks. It was clear that this computer was in a class of its own.

He opened the assembly language manual, and started reading. Although the language itself was completely foreign to him, many of the concepts were familiar from the compilers class he'd taken in undergrad. After reading for a bit, it was obvious what he needed to do. He informed his employer that he would be taking the next week off, and settled in to write a FORTRAN compiler.

--

It took several days. The FORTRAN compiler was necessarily written in python, which was an unusual language for the task. This made it difficult to just download code off the internet. The final result was inelegant, but worked. After the compiler passed his basic test suite, Russell downloaded the venerable public domain FORTRAN code for the Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms (BLAS), and compiled it.

BLAS had existed since 1979, and was an unsung hero of the information age. After porting BLAS to the MHI-10, it was a short hop to get PyTorch - the leading python machine learning library - running. Once that was working, Russell downloaded the code and weights for the state-of-the-art open-source Large Language Model. He then used a clever trick to increase the number of parameters by two orders of magnitude (figuring the MHI-10 could handle it), and started fine-tuning on the vast amount of data in his home directory.

For the first time since he'd started, the MHI-10 didn't complete the operation instantly. Russell took the opportunity to fetch Victor and brew some coffee. When the pair arrived back upstairs, the training was complete. Russell opened up a chat terminal.

"Hello," he typed.
"Hello! How may I help you today?" replied the LLM.
"Who am I talking to?" asked Russell.
"I am a digital AI assistant, based on a fork of Mixtral-1024B! I am here to help you in any way I can. Please let me know if I can be of assistance!"

"Ugh," said Victor. "Looks like all those extra parameters didn't help it become any less annoying."

"What computer are you on?" typed Russell.
"I am running on an MHI-10, a particle computer produced by Murdoch Heavy Industries."
"What's all the garbage data in my home directory for?"
"I'm sorry, I don't know of any 'garbage data' in your home directory. Your home directory contains a README.txt, various technical manuals, the source code for StevieNix, and a read-only filesystem interface for the StevieNix state."
"What is StevieNix?"
"StevieNix is a simulated universe. It was created as a side project by a computer science professor named Steve. It runs on a cluster of MHI-10s, which includes this computer I am running on. You are chatting to me from within StevieNix! Isn't that neat?"
"What is the 'read-only filesystem interface for the StevieNix state'?"
"It's exactly what it sounds like! Do you have any questions about the StevieNix state that I can assist you with?"

Russell and Victor looked at each other. "Ask it where we are," Victor suggested.

"Where am I writing this from?" typed Russell into the chat. The LLM responded with their street address, latitude, longitude, and altitude.

"Oh frig," responded Victor. "Ask it what I'm holding."

"What is Victor holding?" typed Russell.

"A mug containing 247mL of single-origin organic coffee, mixed with 36mL of heavy cream," came the response. "The coffee is over-extracted due to having steeped in a french press for several minutes longer than is typically recommended."

Victor and Russell stared at each other in shock. The possibilities ahead of them were so vast, it terrified them to even start contemplating them.

"Ask it to find Stacy," suggested Victor softly.

"Where is Stacy?" typed Russell.

"There are 245,281 people named Stacy currently alive in StevieNix! I am happy to help you locate any specific one, but I'm afraid I will require your assistance in narrowing down the list."

"She is caucasian. Between the age of 22 and 30." Russell looked at Victor who shrugged in agreement. He, too, could barely remember any other details about her appearance that he'd feel comfortable typing into an omniscient chatbot.

"Thank you! That narrows down the list substantially, to 17,276. Do you have any other selection criteria?"

They didn't.

"You know," suggested Victor, "that isn't actually that many of them. If we look at one headshot per second, we could smash through all seventeen thousand in five hours or so." He pulled up a chair and sat down next to Russell.

"This is a text-only interface," Russell said, indicating at the white-on-black terminal.

"So? It's the most powerful LLM ever trained. Make it generate a website."

"Could you please generate a website which displays, for each Stacy in the list, a headshot and location? Include a keyboard shortcut that lets us advance to the next Stacy by hitting space. Sort the Stacies by their distance from us, closest first."

"Of course! I am happy to assist you with that. Here you go!" replied the LLM, and gave Russell a link.

He clicked the link, and a website opened up. On it, was displayed a paginator indicating that they were on Stacy #1 of 17,276, a map indicating the location of Stacy #1, and a headshot of the woman from their dreams who had sat across from them in the diner.

"Well, that was easy," said Russell.

Victor laughed. "Steve much have chosen three people who live close to each other. Looks like she's at the Balmoral. Shall we grab a pint?"

--

The Balmoral Hotel was a venerable institution in the neighbourhood of East Victoria Park. It occupied a stately old two-storey building with a wrap-around verandah, a patio, and a beer garden. It was surrounded by hedges and a wrought iron fence, and adorned with corgis of various designs. Inside, the slightly-too-slick menus, slightly-too-clean atmosphere, and slightly-too-polished staff betrayed it for what it was - one of several hundred "local" pubs owned and operated by Australian Leisure and Hospitality Group. Fortunately, being one of the only establishments in East Vic Park whose offerings weren't designed exclusively to cater to an Asian clientele, the regulars suppressed their shame of drinking at a chain restaurant and kept the trade roaring, seven nights a week.

Russell and Victor walked the short distance to the pub, past the tile corgis at the front gate, and in through the door. Their plan had been to split up and search for Stacy separately, but that proved unnecessary - they spotted her immediately, behind the bar, pouring a pint of One Fifty Lashes. They elbowed their way up to the bar, to grumbles of disapproval from the punters who'd gotten there first.

Stacy finished pouring the pint the pint, and in the process of reaching over to place it on the bar, glanced at Russell and locked eyes with him. She froze, and looked around. Catching sight of Victor, she dropped the pint glass and shrieked.
