# 25. Traffic law humiliation rituals

"I can't believe it's really you!" Stacy cried, running around the bar and wrapping the two young men in an embrace that made Russell's blood run hot with hormones and embarrassment. "I thought it was all a crazy dream!"

She held on for several seconds before being interrupted by an "Excuse me, miss" from the punter whose beer she had just dropped all over the bar.

"Piss off, dickhead!" she offered in response. She tore off her clean, pressed apron, threw it at the foot of the offending patron, grabbed Russell and Vincent's arms, and marched them out of the pub. "Let the dead bury their own dead!" she explained.

The reference went over both Russell and Vincent's heads. Russell felt a pang of regret at having gone to all this effort to track down a woman who was clearly insane, but it abated upon realizing that it hadn't actually been much effort at all.

As they were no longer welcome at the only pub in town, the trio were forced to go to one of the seven proximate bubble tea establishments instead. Within a few minutes, they were seated around a table, nursing large cups of artificial creamer mixed with artificial sweeter and "tea", surrounded by international students holding conversations in Mandarin.

Having not had anyone else with whom to discuss the dream, Stacy took the opportunity to unload her memories and theories upon Russell and Vincent in the manner of an unattended firehose. The two roommates sat and nodded, as she explained how Steve's revelations lined up with various bible passages - and how thus, in her estimation, he was the "real deal."

Russell was grateful for the apparent respect for their privacy displayed by the other occupants of the bubble tea shop, who didn't seem to mind the presence of someone whom, had he not shared the exact same dream, he would have labeled as an unmedicated schizophrenic.

"And then he gave you a card!" she concluded. "What did it say?"

Finally, it was Russell's turn to sound like a lunatic. He explained that the card contained an address, which allowed him to access an unfathomably powerful computer that seemed to contain the state of the universe itself. Skipping reluctantly over the details surrounding the FORTRAN compiler (he was quite proud of it, but had learned that attractive women's interest is a scare resource not to be squandered on long technical monologues), he explained that he'd spent the week making an omniscient AI chatbot, and that was how they'd tracked her down.

"But how did you find me specifically? There must be millions of Stacies worldwide!"

"We had our methods," Russell responded coyly, not wanting to admit that their plan had been to look through seventeen thousand headshots until they found the Stacy in question. "Steve made it easy on us - you were the closest one."

Stacy seemed satisfied with that answer and moved on. "He gave us a mission."

"Right," responded Russell, who had become so entranced by the MHI-10 particle computer that he'd almost forgotten why he'd been granted access to it. "A high-fertility, high-tech society of true believers."

"I have some fertility theories," Stacy said.

Russell chuckled. Of course she did.

She launched into a litany of theoretical causes for the birth rate collapse, covering such diverse topics as endocrine disruptors in the food supply, the long-term effects of hormonal birth control, outdated public water infrastructure being unsuited to filtering out pharmaceutical products such as SSRIs, the cost of living, Agenda 2030 and the UN Sustainable Development Goals, microplastics, the low status associated with motherhood, pornography, the PFAS content of toilet paper, and the general lack of desirable options in the male dating pool.

Russell responded with his take, which centered around climate/overpopulation concerns, the effects of universal education, r/K selection theory, and the general lack of desirable options in the female dating pool.

Stacy responded that his opinions were "midwit."

Finally, Vincent spoke up. "'A chimp in state of nature never jerks off, but in captivity he does, wat does this mean?'" he quoted.

Russell and Stacy looked at him, confused.

"Where did the birth rate collapse first appear?" he asked, rhetorically.

"Germany and Japan in the mid-twentieth century," responded Stacy, who had clearly put some time into researching the subject.

"Right. And what happened to Germany and Japan before then?"

Russell and Stacy looked at each other uncomfortably.

"They were absolutely buck broken by the Global American Empire," said Vincent, answering his own question. "Conquered. Demoralized. Chimps in captivity."

Russell sighed. He knew what was coming - one of Vincent's famous rants.

"But we're not conquered," objected Stacy.

"Wrong!" objected Vincent. "You're so conquered that you aren't even consciously aware of it. You tell yourself that you're free, but try not paying your taxes for a bit and see how free you are! Try building a deck without a permit. Try driving at a reasonable speed down Tonkin Highway."

Russell laughed. The Tonkin Highway detail was a new addition to the rant, and it hit close to home. The speed limit on that freeway was absurdly low, and it was covered in speed cameras.

"So you think," Stacy asked, "people aren't making babies because of traffic laws?"

"Traffic laws," Vincent continued, "are a humiliation ritual. Every day, every one of us has to suffer the indignity of driving at a stupid, unnaturally low speed, or suffer fines at the hands of the digital robot surveillance grid. And if you don't pay your fines, what does the system do? Send armed men to your house to drag you to a cage! And if you put up any meaningful amount of resistance? They'll shoot you. That's the deal! Drive stupidly slowly, or we'll shoot you. And you think you're not conquered! You think you're not demoralized! Deep down, you know you are. Everyone does. That's why everyone's so pissed off and depressed all the time! And who wants to bring kids into a world where they're conquered before they're even born?"

"Traffic laws keep people safe," objected Russell.

"To hell with you and your safety!" Vincent responded. The international students pretended not to eavesdrop, but it was obvious from the silence in the shop that Vincent's rant had begun to attract an audience. "You know what's safe? A cage. A zoo. Staying inside and doing nothing all day until you die. You know what isn't safe? Childbirth. Marriage. Lashing your future to another human being and giving them the keys to destroy your life and everything you've ever worked for. That's not very safe, is it?"

Russell sighed.

Stacy spoke up. "I think you've got a point," she replied.

Vincent turned to her. "Thank you!" he said. It wasn't often that he found an audience receptive to his rants. "Many of the problems you've identified are downstream of this one. We're chimps in captivity. You think anyone would give a damn about the UN if we weren't? Chimp in state of nature wipes his ass with UN Sustainable Development Goals."

"What about the endocrine disruptors?" she asked.

Vincent paused. "I'll admit," he conceded, "I hadn't thought much about the endocrine disruptors. But consider this" - he brightened up - "chimp in state of nature doesn't encounter any goddamned endocrine disruptors either. It isn't just the state that's conquered us, it's the whole system."

"Right," responded Russell. "So all we need to do to save civilization is to destroy it."

"Not civilization," objected Vincent. "Just the managerial state and the globalist order. And we don't necessarily need to destroy it either. It's sufficient to just evaporate away from it."

Over the next hour, he laid out his plan. By the end of it, Russell and Stacy were fully on board.
