#27. The Manufacturing Singularity

Vincent had played out the manufacturing singularity in his mind many times before. He had always imagined the progress to follow something like Moore's Law - a wickedly fast progression in the long arc of human history, but a banal plod in the lifetimes of the humans fortunate enough to see it happen.

Of course, he hadn't factored in the assistance of a superintelligent omniscient chatbot. Working in tandem with the LLM and the robot spider, each next step in the progression was realized almost as quickly as he could imagine it.

He needed a portable power source - lithium batteries fell far short of the capacity needed to mill, weld, and sinter on the go. Plumbing the depths of the LLM's brain, Vincent and the machine invented a method of producing high quality graphene in his two-car garage. Within an hour, the robot was mass producing graphene supercapacitors, and swapping them in and out of a charging port it had built and attached to a wall socket.

The next generation of robots was three orders of magnitude smaller - while the spider weighed 40kg, its offspring weighed only 40 grams. They were modeled after ants, with six limbs and bodies the length of an adult human finger. Instead of being able to do a wide array of things, like the spider, each ant was specialized to perform only one or two tasks. Vincent designed and built cutter ants who carefully broke apart materials, transportation ants who could carry up to 40 times their bodyweight, welding ants, laser ants, carbon fiber synthesis ants, and many more. Each ant was powered by an array of supercapacitors and communicated to a base station via a salvaged bluetooth chip. The ants covered the entire workshop, moving in a coordinated swarm. When an ant ran low on power, it would run over to to the charging station and swap out its supercapacitors, while another ant took its place.

Vincent was particularly proud of the recycling system. It was so sophisticated that he merely had to toss in a piece of junk - eg. an old, broken smartphone - and the ants would sieze it and start tearing it apart. Any useful components - resistors, capacitors, microchips, etc. - would be carefully removed and placed in one of several bins (strict organization wasn't necessary as the entire inventory was indexed by the omniscient computer). The remaining pieces would be carried into a vacuum chamber (to prevent contamination from the air) and pulled apart, shredded and melted down into their pure, elemental raw materials. Vincent roped Stacy in to spend her days driving round scrapyards and recycling depots, indiscriminantly collecting discarded electronic grist for the robotic mill.

The next shrink brought the average robot weight down to 8 milligrams, and its size down to that of an actual ant. At this scale, microchip size became the major limiting factor - the salvage chips he'd been relying on up to this point were simply too big. Vincent and the LLM spent some time developing ants capable of performing the deposition, lithography, etching, and micromachining necessary to manufacture semiconductors. The robots produced were controlled by tiny, silicon brains containing the absolute minimum number of transistors necessary to perform their assigned tasks.

Rather than the uniform ant design, the robots at this scale took on many shapes. Swarms of tiny, fruit fly-inspired robots buzzed around the workshop, transporting parts for the earth-bound bugs to cut, melt, and refashion into more robots. Now that the process had been freed from relying on salvage electronics, Stacy was able to cease her relentless tour of recycling depots. Instead, the trio released first hundreds, then thousands, and finally millions of robotic worms into Vincent and Steve's backyard to mine for silicon, aluminium, lead, tin, rare earth metals, platinum, and gold.

Unbeknownst to anyone, the ground under the city of Perth was filled with an intricate network of tunnels just a few millimeters in diameter. The tunnel network formed an immense graph - millions of perfectly spherical nodes, connected by billions of perfectly straight edges, efficiently routing the worms from high-density elemental deposits to the manufacturing hub in the garage. Each node contained a single optical relay - a robot positioned directly in the center, which received light pulses from neighbouring nodes and broadcasted them onwards. Through this network, mining worms could communicate from one end of the city to the other, underground, at the speed of light.

The next shrink created robots the size of yeast. A single robot was invisible - they could only be seen when they aggregated together, which they obediently did by the billion. These enabled the creation of exotic materials, inspired by natural substances dredged out of the StevieNix state by the LLM. On command, the robots could synthesize elements into sheets of heavenly silk, columns of marble, or intricate braids of gold and transistors. But mostly, they were responsible for creating and assisting the robots of the final shrink.

The final shrink created robots that operated at the atomic scale. Each molecular machine's bizarre structure was uniquely suited to its assigned task, which was to place and bond atoms - mostly carbon - in desired locations.

Once the final shrink had been achieved, truly fantastic structures appeared on Vincent's command. Impossibly light airships and gliders flew around the ceiling of the garage. Railguns of various shapes and sizes materialized on the workbench. He finally moved the factory off mains power, and onto a fusion reactor the size of a basketball that could power the city of Perth for weeks without being refueled.

Portable fusion reactors began to permeate all of Vincent's designs. He even had the robots build a fusion-powered motorcycle, which he took for a 350km/h joyride down Tonkin Highway at 1am. He returned to the house, shaking.

"I think my blood is like eighty percent adrenaline," he announced, striding into the kitchen.

Russell and Stacy were still up, nursing mugs of tea. In the past few weeks, Stacy had become their de facto third roommate. She had taken over Vincent's room while he slept in a hammock in the garage.

Stacy ran up to him and threw her arms around his neck. "You idiot!" She backed off. "How fast did you get?"

"I hit three fifty. Not fast enough for Bonneville, but definitely fast enough for Tonkin Highway."

Russell and Vincent broke into laughter, while Stacy scowled and returned to her mug of tea.

"I definitely feel ready to increase the fertility rate now, if you know what I mean!" Vincent remarked crassly in her direction.

"Go to hell!" came the response. The laughter continued. Eventually, Stacy couldn't help but laugh too.

"What was it like?" asked Russell.

"Windy. The air kept trying to pull me off. It was all I could do to hang on."

Stacy shook her head. "Such an unbelievable idiot", she chuckled.

Vincent made himself a cup of tea, and the trio spent the next hour reminiscing over the past few weeks. Finally, when all their mugs were empty, Russell asked the big question.

"Are we ready to go?"

"Let's do it!" Vincent responded.

Stacy just nodded and put down her mug. Russell pulled a box off the bookshelf and pulled out a Starlink transceiver.

The three put on the warmest jackets they owned and walked down to the Swan River.
