# 29. The Island

Russell was awoken by the sensation of robotic ants crawling over him. He yelped, jumped up, and shook them off furiously.

"Good morning, sunshine!" called out Vincent. Russell spun around. "We thought you'd never wake up!"

Vincent and Stacy were standing at the edge of the island, inspecting a much larger and more seaworthy vessel than the one they'd taken to the island. "She made me build it," Vincent explained. "Might be useful for transporting livestock or whatever, but for the most part I figured we'd commute by hyperloop."

"Do we have any water?" Russell asked. His lips were cracked and skin felt like it had been roughed up with 40 grit sandpaper.

"Of course we do," Vincent responded, pointing behind Russell.

Russell turned towards the center of the island. Where the black carbon cylinder had previously stood, was a hill. While it was mostly still pure white polymerized fullerene, the top was covered with a deep brown earth. He looked down at his feet and saw dozens of the robotic ants that had awoken him scurrying to and fro, carrying spheres of dirt.

"Didn't like the look of the fullerene?" he asked.

"Good luck growing anything on it," Vincent responded.

Russell started walking up the hill. Before long, he spotted the water source - a tiny stream, running through a crease in the fullerene, led from the top of the hill down to the sea. "Hey Stacy!" he yelled. "Does this water have any endocrine disruptors in it?"

The group laughed. Russell dropped to his knees and drank greedily from the stream. When he was done, he climbed to the top of the hill to get a better look. The higher he climmbed, the more the ground underneath his feet felt like real earth. The ants were terraforming the island from the top down.

He reached the top and looked out. The island was small - just a few hundred meters in diameter - and a perfect hexagon. Weird. He trudged back down to the others. Stacy had cleaned herself up, changed into a white sundress, and evidently roped Vincent into being her photographer.

"Why is it a hexagon?" he asked.

"Hexagon is the bestagon," Vincent responded blithely.

"Are we floating?"

"Yup," responded Vincent. "The fullerene is super light and will never get waterlogged."

"Why doesn't it wobble?"

Vincent smiled and put Stacy's phone in his pocket so as to free up his hands for the explanation. "The island is like an upside-down teardrop," he explained, using his hands to demonstrate the outline. "At the bottom, there's a huge ball of lead. This makes it so the center of gravity is-"

"Excuse me nerds," interrupted Stacy, "but some of us have work to do here."

Russell looked over at her. Arms crossed, weight on one leg, scowl. Annoyance embodied.

"Work?" he asked, pointing his chin in the general direction of her sundress.

"Yes, the actual hard part," she responded. "This island is neat and all, but the world is full of islands that no one wants to live on. What makes you think this one is going to be any different?"

Russell hadn't thought about that.

"Didn't you know?" asked Vincent. "She's been documenting all our progress on social media. She has like ten million followers."

Russell hadn't known.

"You got ten million followers in a few weeks?" he asked, skeptically.

"I already had one million," she responded. "I was a wellness influencer."

"What's a wellness influencer?" he asked.

Stacy just scoffed and resumed her pose. Once Vincent had finally taken one that met her standards, she took her phone back, muttered into it, and her clothing transformed into a red bikini top and matching skirt. "Can we get some sort of tropical pergola here?" she asked, ruffling her hair. "Think Bali, tiki bar sorta vibes."

A bamboo pergola grew out of the ground in front of them.

When it was done, she climbed up onto a barstool and picked up the fruity cocktail that the nano-robots had assembled on the bar.

"I wouldn't drink that," warned Vincent. "The robots are designed for making computers and structural carbon. Drinks that don't kill you are outside of the spec."

"What about the stream?" Russell asked, nervously.

"That's fine," Vincent responded. "That's just ocean water run through a desalinator and a reverse osmosis filter. But that," he gestured at the drink in Stacy's hand, "well, let's just say I have no idea how they made it red."

Stacy looked suspiciously at the drink. Suppressing her obvious disgust, she held it up next to her face and beamed a smile that would have halted a Mongol invasion. After Vincent had taken several photos, she relaxed her expression, placed the glass gingerly back on the bar and stepped away. "We're going to have to figure out how to make real drinks before the people start arriving," she noted.

Vincent and Russell nodded.

"Maybe they can bring their own drinks," Vincent suggested.
