# Chapter 3

Trounced by a bunch of zodiac enthusiasts. What an embarrasment. There weren't enough hens in the world to lay the cumulative quantity of egg on the astronomers' faces. Truth be told, the field had languished during the Great Peace. While their primitive ancestors had once gazed upon the stars and seen the final frontier - an infinite array of worlds ripe for the raping and pillaging - modern enlightened folk had no such interest in conquest.

The field of astronomy, like the rest of academia, had slowly ossified into an elaborate economy of prestige. The occasional student unfortunate enough to enter the field spent several years taking "classes" under a rotating cast of senior academics, during which he learned the basic art of memorizing accepted ideas and paraphrasing them in sufficiently novel ways so as to avoid triggering anti-plagiarism software. A successful student was one who flattered, but never out-shone his academic superiors.

After the years of classes, should the student wish to continue his academic career, he would seek a supervisor. As there was precious else to do with an astronomy undergrad degree, most did. Then, the "research" would begin. A typical research project involved studying the intersection between some aspect of astronomy and the interests of some minority group, eg. "Red Dwarves and the Short Statured Community: A Critical Analysis of Terminological Impact". The output of the research project would be a thesis - consisting of a survey, some basic statistical tests, a self-flagellating discussion, and several hundred pages of literature review.

If the student successfully wrote and defended his thesis, his next step was to become a researcher. This was a similar role but with less autonomy. Researchers often joined research groups - teams of individuals, collaborating on such heavy-hitting topics as "The Role of Cultural Contexts in Shaping Scientific Paradigms in Astronomical Outreach: An Intersectional Perspective on Star Party Planning and Telescope Accessibility". The primary function of the research group was to convince Government and Non-Government Organizations to supply them with grant money, and as a young researcher ascended the ranks of the research group a steadily increasing amount of their time was spent, not on producing the "research" itself, but on convincing the government that the research was extremely important and thus worthy of being funded.

After decades or (more likely) centuries as a researcher, a successful researcher would find himself at the penultimate stage in his career - as a tenure-track professor. Here, his role was almost exclusively to raise grant money, with a smattering of teaching and supervision. Perform this job adequately, and the astronomer could obtain the holy grail of the astronomy career path - tenureship.

Tenureship was effectively retirement. So long as the tenured professor continued to both meet his university's extremely lax teaching/supervision requirements and avoid accidental death and execution, he could spend the rest of eternity doing whatever he liked. In almost all cases, what the tenured professor liked doing was research. And so, the astronomical literature continued to grow, and the grants continued to flow.

At no point, in this career of potentially infinite length, was he ever rewarded for looking through a telescope. So he didn't.

When Gabe reached his desk and fired up his computer, he realized that he didn't even have his own telescope. He was pretty sure the university had one, but he didn't have the foggiest idea how to use it. With a sigh and a deep burning of shame, he navigated to the newspaper archives and searched for the words "horoscope darkening".
