# 30. The Commonwealth of New Sealand

The people did bring their own drinks. And their own food. And seeds, saplings, and livestock. That was the deal - be self-sufficient, help terraform the island, get to hang out with Stacy in a tropical paradise. Thousands leapt at the opportunity.

Vincent had thought he was busy before. He wasn't. The influx of people, all requiring accommodation, transportation, running water, sewage treatment, etc. overwhelmed him. Despite spending every waking moment of every day designing and building, he still couldn't keep up with demand. Eventually, with much chagrin, he was forced to assemble a staff. Together, he and his crew oversaw the creation of new islands, the planting of vast acres of farmland, the construction of towns and villages.

Transportation between neighbouring islands was accomplished by boat - modeled, to Stacy and Russell's chagrin - after the now-iconic mastless long-tailed viking warship the trio had taken on their maiden voyage out to sea. Transportation over longer distances was accomplished by hyperloop - maglev trains floating inside perfectly cylindrical tubes, from which all the air had been vaccuumed out. Barring relativistic effects, there was no theoretical maximum speed of a hyperloop train. In practice, they peaked at ten thousand kilometers per hour and could circumnavigate the globe in four hours.

Their first continental hyperloop station was on a farm just outside of Perth. It consisted of a gravel driveway, an enormous underground parking garage, and a 500 meter deep elevator shaft. Anyone told about the station was sworn to secrecy, on pain of banishment from New Sealand. Western Australian immigrants started flooding in.

Within a month, secret hyperloop stations dotted the regions of the world with high concentrations of desirable immigrants. As the face of New Sealand, the responsibility for setting immigration policy feel by default upon Stacy. Although they never questioned her criteria directly, Russell and Vincent surmised from the results that they were "young, hard-working, eager to party, highly attractive." Vincent and his crew built hyperloop stations all over Western Europe, North America, Australia, and East Asia.

Russell, on the other hand, found himself withdrawing more and more from the daily tasks of bootstrapping New Sealand as the population increased. His focus was theological - he spent his days composing the Newer Testament, in which he recorded Steve's revelations in the diner, the exodus to New Sealand, and his theories of the afterlife. When he was done, copies were distributed to every citizen and new arrival. Although most people were already familiar with the contents from Stacy's social media postings, the book was still widely read and its distribution led much of the population to redouble their terraforming efforts with renewed religious fervour.

Unfortunately, not everyone was so inspired. Rumours of anti-social behaviour started to reach Stacy.

"Someone's been stealing goats", she announced to the other two over dinner.

"I'm pretty sure this is fish," responded Russell, absent-mindedly prodding his dinner.

"Huh? Pay attention. I'm talking about Pierre and Veronique's goats."

"That French couple with the cottage on the South Island?" asked Vincent. He and his crew had built their pasture a couple of months ago. Veronique had insisted on fields of lavendar being planted, claiming it improved the flavour of the meat.

"Yes, they've lost three in the last week."

"How do we know someone stole them? They could have just wandered off," objected Russell.

"They claim it was a Belgian farmhand who had inside knowledge of their operation."

"Their goat-farming operation?" Russell laughed. "So we're talking a pretty sophisticated heist then?"

"They're very upset," responded Stacy. "They want us to do something."

"Yes, let's summon the goat detectives," chuckled Vincent. "See if they can goat to the bottom of it."

"It's not the first instance of anti-social behaviour," objected Stacy. "A woman was raped in the Capital last week."

"What? And you led with the goats?" asked Vincent, suddenly serious.

"The goats were more recent. Anyway, the point is, what are we going to do about it?"

The light-hearted conversation descended into into squabble. Fundamentally, they all agreed that rapists and goat-rustlers deserved to be hanged. Their opinions differed, however, on the methods of determining the guilt and administering the punishment.

Vincent put forth his preferred option - vigilante lynch mobs - and sat back, detached, as the other two ignored his suggestion and bickered over the merits of various state apparatuses.

"This is going to sound a bit crazy," started Stacy, "but hear me out: Queen Stacy."

Russell choked on his drink. Stacy politely waited for him to stop coughing, before continuing. "I'm basically queen already. Everyone moved here because of me. If I told them to go hang someone, they'd do it. You know it."

"What's to stop you," asked Russell, "from getting them to hang an innocent person?"

"I'll use my powers wisely," smiled Stacy. "With great power, comes-"

"Shut up." Russell was visibly outraged. "Monarchies are discredited. They have been for centuries. Have you never heard of the enlightenment?"

Stacy rolled her eyes. "We didn't come out here to escape a monarchy," she pointed out. "Not a functional one, at least. King Charles never set a speed limit."

Russell turned to Vincent. "Can you tell her?" he pleaded.

"A monarchy is a tyranny where you're ruled by one person," responded Vincent. "A democracy, on the other hand, is a tyranny where you're ruled by the entire population. Which is worse?.

Russell sighed. That wasn't the response he'd been hoping for.

"If Stacy turns out to be a bad queen," Vincent continued, "the peasants can just revolt and behead her. But what if fifty one percent of the voters turn out to be bad at voting? Good luck beheading them all! There aren't enough guillotines in the world."

Russell turned back to Stacy. "Does that sound appealing? Do a bad job and get beheaded in a peasant revolt?"

Stacy shrugged. "Seems unlikely," she responded. "I'll do a great job."

Russell wasn't convinced. "We didn't come here to escape a democracy either. We escaped a corrupt oligarchy run by billionnaires. The principle of democracy is fine, Australia just didn't do it right. We can make a proper direct democracy on the blockchain. One person one vote, cryptographically verified."

"You want to know what a direct democracy looks like?" Vincent asked.

"What?"

"Vigilante lynch mobs. Fully democratic judge, jury, and executioner. Power to the people, baby!" Vincent grinned, followed by an "ow!" as Russell punched his arm.

"That's not what I'm suggesting," Russell grumbled.

"That's right, Vincent! He's suggesting vigilante lynch mobs on the blockchain." piped in Stacy.

"'Democracy is the worst form of government, except for all of the others that have been tried,'" quoted Russell.

"Democracy is the most degenerate form of government, out of all the ones that have been tried," corrected Vincent. "I mean that literally. Democracies are the result of human organization meeting the second law of thermodynamics. Don't confuse entropy for progress."

"Anarchy is so degenerate that even ants have evolved beyond it," shot back Russell.

In the end, they couldn't agree. A compromise was struck. The Commonwealth of New Sealand would be split into three separate entities - Stacy's Theocratic Dominion, Russell's People's Republic, and Vincent's Anarchy with Borders. Time would be the judge of their success.
