# 32. Xavier

"Hey dad", asked Xavier, "why does no one else build new islands?"

Vincent put down his phone and peered over the table at his son. "What do you mean?" he responded. "We have a whole crew building the islands. Each island takes at least forty people, and we usually have a dozen going at once."

"Right," Xavier responded, "but it's only your crew, which means you have a stranglehold on the market. You could charge as much as you like to build an island. Therefore pricing must be inefficient and it's a moral duty of the market to kneecap you until competitors have the opportunity to emerge."

Vincent sighed. Xavier was homeschooled, and was working his way through a unit he had designed on Austrian Economics. As has happened before, Xavier was applying his newfound knowledge to criticizing everybody around him, particularly his parents.

"But I don't charge for the islands at all," he objected.

"Even worse! You just build islands based on vibes! The market price of a new canton is a suitably manipulative pitch deck. You know there are companies out there that specialize in helping would-be canton founders prepare pitch decks for you?"

Vincent was aware. Their pitch decks all looked the same. He hadn't seen an original, home-made deck in years - which was a shame, as he vastly preferred them.

"Any idea how much those companies charge to prepare a deck? There's basically a black market price on new cantons."

"Are you suggesting I start charging for cantons?" asked Vincent.

"No, without competition there's no way for you to discover a fair market price," responded his teenaged son, confidently. "I'm suggesting you democratize the island-creating technology and let a free market emerge."

"Absolutely not. No way in hell", responded Vincent.

"Why not?"

Vincent thought back to the early days, to the house he and Russell had shared in Perth. Their early interactions with the MHI-10. How easily they'd tracked down Stacy. How easily they'd manufactured railguns and fusion reactors. He thought of the vast, unthinkable scale of misery and destruction that could be unleashed by the wrong person being granted access to the omniscient supercomputer. The people of New Sealand were mostly extremely virtuous people, but it would only take one maniac with a remote-controlled omniscience-guided fusion bombing drone to destroy it all.

"The technology to build islands rests," he explained carefully, "on a technology too powerful for humans to handle."

"You mean the computer?" Xavier asked. "The MHI-10?"

Vincent winced. The MHI-10 had been deliberately left out of Xavier's homeschool curriculum, the Newer Testament, and, to his knowledge, all of Stacy's social media postings.

"Who told you about the MHI-10?"

"Everyone knows about the MHI-10, dad."

Vincent swore. "Don't repeat that," he added, hastily. "Let this be a lesson to you. Never trust anyone with anything."

"There's a referendum about it in the People's Republic."

"WHAT?"

Xavier pushed his phone across the table. It displayed his social media feed, plastered with post after post of People's Republicans complaining about their lack of access to the computer.

"Elitist assholes, prolly sitting in their mansions jerking off, spying on the rest of us while we do all the REAL WORK!" read a representative sample.

"Russell wants to pretend he's one of us, meanwhile he's sitting on a pile of gold the size of parliament! Let them eat cake, motherf--"

"Morons," responded Vincent and pushed the phone back.

"They're going to win," said Xavier. "The referendum's at 96% for."

"What's the wording?"

"Democratize access to the MHI-10 supercomputer, for the common good of humanity."

Vincent rolled his eyes. "They have no idea what they're asking for. How are they even going to enforce that? The only people with access are Stacy, Russell, and myself." He thought for a second, then realized. "Oh. Remind me to triple security."

"Anyway," said Xavier, "we were talking about the islands."

"I already answered your question."

"Why can't you use the computer to build fab technology that doesn't rely on the computer? Then you can democratize that."

Vincent was a little annoyed. To be honest, the thought had never occurred to him. An engineer to the bone, he'd set out to meet a set of requirements. Was fabricating a Hoppean collective of free societies on artificial islands not hard enough? Democratizing access to nano-fabrication technology was outside the scope. Xavier should count himself lucky that Vincent had taken enough time away from the project to father him.

"Do you want to give it a shot?" he asked. "We'll add it to your engineering curriculum."

Xavier's jaw dropped.

--

The project was harder than it sounded. Access to the MHI-10 had been a foundational assumption at every step of the tech tree, from the robot spider in Vincent's old workshop, to the extremely sophisticated Computer-Aided Design/Manufacturing (CAD/CAM) software that Vincent and his team had built up over the decades to assist in island production. Removing it would have been impossible, were Xavier not allowed to use the MHI-10 itself to help with the task.

Xavier got to work. He was relieved to find that his father had always relied on sensors, never omniscience, to determine the locations of objects in real-time. Retrofitting sensors into the robot designs would have been an immense challenge. Still, there was plenty of omniscience involved in higher-level planning and swarm coordination. As manufacturing an island involved coordinating trillions upon trillions of individual robots, replacing the MHI-10 with conventional computing algorithms was tricky, to say the least. Finally, he understood why integrated circuits had been a part of his curricilum since he was six.

He became best friends with the Large Language Model. Over the course of the next few months, it helped him design a new machine. It wasn't a general purpose computer, but an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) designed to design other integrated circuits. These secondary integrated circuits were special - rather than standalone computing devices, they were built into the structure of whatever object the ASIC was trying to construct. It was these secondary circuits that would coordinate the robot swarm responsible for the object's construction - thus, every object manufactured would essentially be a computer, that knew how to manufacture itself.

The ASIC was huge. It was roughly the size and shape of an oak tree. Constructed out of an unfathomably complex lattice of carbon, silicon, gold and rare earth metals, it was kept submerged in an enormous tank of cooling liquid. When Xavier switched it on for the first time, it hummed. He watched the cooling liquid slowly start moving around the tank, swirling around the hundreds of thousands of delicate leaves.

Slowly, he walked over to his desk next to the tank and brought up his dad's CAD software. The LLM had helpfully ported it to the ASIC - Xavier had no idea how, but assumed that the software was now baked in to the circuit. To update the software, he'd need to build a new tree. Praying under his breath, he drew a 1cm sphere in CAD. He then flipped over to CAM, selected a spot on his desk as the output location, and clicked "run".

He stared at the spot on his desk. For ten long seconds, nothing appeared to happen. Then, he saw a speck of dust appear. Out of it, grew a number of tiny threads, so small that he would have missed them had he not been staring so intently at that exact location. The threads grew up, branching and joining each other, until they'd built an almost invisible 1cm buckeyball. The circuit.

Then, over the course of a couple seconds, the almost-invisible ball filled out. It blackened before Xavier's eyes, becoming a solid, carbon sphere. He picked it up. It was perfect. Impossibly light, visually flawless. He could see no trace at all of the billions of transistors integrated throughout its structure.

Just then, the door to his lab burst open and his disheveled father ran in.

"Hey dad!" he yelled excitedly, running up to him. "It worked! Look!"

Vincent paused, and looked down at the tiny black marble his son was holding up to him. For a moment, he forgot why he'd run in. He looked up at the ASIC, standing proudly in its enormous diamond cylinder of swirling coolant. He understood the implications. "It worked?" he asked.

"Yes!" Xavier responded, pressing the ball into his dad's palm. "Look, it's perfect!"

Vincent examined the sphere. It looked to be about a centimeter in diameter. Probably was, down to the atom. He remembered the plywood smiley face he'd had his spider build, all those years ago. The vast consequences implied by the construction of that simple, 50mm circle. He rolled the sphere between his fingers. It was perfect indeed. Terrifyingly so.

He had absolutely no idea what to say to his son.

"Congratulations," he finally said. "Took you long enough."

Xavier laughed and ran back to his computer. "I'm gonna make a skateboard!" he shouted.

Vincent snapped back into the moment, and remembered why he'd run into the lab. "Not right now," he said. "We're going to Stacy's. Come on, the ketzels are already saddled up."

"What, now? Do I have to come?"

"Yes, you have to come."

"I've just made the most significant technological advance in two decades and you want me to go to a stupid dinner party?"

Vincent looked at his son, and realized how engrossed he'd become in the project. "You haven't been reading the news, have you?"

"No, why?"

Vincent sighed. A decade's worth of geopolitical evets had unfolded in the past few months. How to catch the kid up?

"Russell's in exile in the Dominion. The PR's declared war on them. A colour revolution is kicking off. Stacy's asked for help. Let's go."

"Oh", responded Xavier. "Okay, I guess."
