# 33. Sullivan

Sullivan was average. Average height, a bit pudgy, not very good at sports. He wasn't the brightest kid in school, but wasn't dumb either. With a great deal of effort, he was able to get mostly Bs, mixed with the occasional A. His guidance counselor advised him to join the military. He studied polysci instead, and then law.

He struggled to get his foot in the door at all the big law firms. Struggled to get work as in-house consel, junior associate, paralegal. Struggled to pay rent. Struggled to get dates on Tinder. His sister told him he gave girl "the ick". He told his sister to go to hell. She helped him spruce up his profile, took a couple of decent headshots, taught him some openers. He went on a few dates, but could never close. Maybe his sister was right about the ick.

His high school friends moved away. There weren't that many of them to begin with. His best friend and roommate, Jack, started dating some fresh off the boat lady whom he suspected needed a greencard. Jack announced two weeks later that he was moving out, so Sullivan helped him drag his mattress down the stairs and onto the roof of his van. That was the last time he saw him. The girl seemed nice.

He spent his days online. He didn't game, feeling that it was a waste of time. Instead, he scrolled social media. His money ran out. He got himself diagnosed with anxiety and filed for disability and a medical marijuana prescription.

One day, a photo popped up on his feed. A beautiful woman, a perfectly white beach, palm trees. "Looking for a change?" the caption asked.

"Screw it," thought Sullivan, and clicked the link in her bio.

He raised his eyebrows. Interesting. She seemed to be some sort of cult leader.

She seemed to be taking applications to join her cult. He looked at the stack of final demands on his second-hand IKEA desk. "Screw it," he thought again, and called his sister.

"You want me to help you with WHAT?" she asked.

"Help me with this, or help scrape my brains off the shower curtain," he responded, matter-of-factly.

She helped him with the application. In the end, it looked as good as his Tinder profile - good enough to gain him coin-flip odds, provided the person on the other side knew nothing about him.

He submitted it. He was accepted.

He was emailed a latitude and longitude. He spent the last of his meager credit card limit on an Uber out there. $226.50. He arrived at a dilapidated barn in the middle of nowhere. The Uber drove off, leaving him coughing a mixture of dust and agricultural chemicals. He didn't leave a tip.

The barn door was slightly ajar. He walked inside, heart pounding. Once his eyes adjusted, his jaw dropped. This cult was something else. A perfectly black cube, blacker than anything he'd ever seen in his life, stood in the middle of the barn, with a sliding door in it and a button. He pushed the button. The door opened. He got in, and the elevator dropped.

With no external reference, he had no idea how far down the elevator went - but just as he was starting to worry he might reach the bottom of the Earth's crust, it decelerated. He got out, and found himself on a subway platform. A single shuttle stood on the tracks, with four seats. He got in. The door closed, leaving the other three seats empty. The shuttle accelerated, noiselessly.

He underwent constant acceleration for a full hour. It felt like a child was bear-hugging him into his seat, attempting weakly to crush his chest. It wasn't hard to breathe, but he eventually started to panic. What had he done?

Just as the waves of regret started cresting over him, his seat swiveled around and the shuttle started decelerating. The same weak crushing feeling - but at least this time, he knew it would eventually end. It took another hour.

Eventually, the shuttle stopped. He got out. This time, there was a woman there to meet him. Not the cult leader, but just as beautiful and bounding with youthful energy. She looked like she belonged on a high school football field, waving pompoms. She beamed a huge smile at him.

"Hi Sullivan, welcome to New Sealand! We're so excited to have you. I'm Tasha, and I'll be your orientation guide!"

That was the most positive attention a beautiful woman had ever paid him. Sullivan fell in love, immediately.

As they ascended the elevator, Tasha filled in the many missing details about New Sealand - or, more accurately, the Commonwealth of New Sealand. New Sealand was actually composed of three separate entities - a direct democracy called the People's Republic, a hereditary monarchy called the Theocratic Dominion, and something else, called the Anarchy. The cult leader he'd come across on social media was queen of the Theocratic Dominion. All new citizens got to choose which entity they wanted to live in.

"Where do you live?" he asked.

"The People's Republic," she beamed in response. "Stacy's cool and all, but she's kinda stingy. I get free housing and healthcare in the PR."

Sullivan signed up for the PR.

As advertised, he was given free housing - a one bedroom apartment, just off one of the canals downtown. It was nice. He also got a monthly stipend, which was more than enough to live comfortably on. There weren't a lot of jobs, but that was okay. He filled his time putting his legal training to work, writing legislation for the PR. Finally, for the first time in his life, he felt useful.

The People's Republic had an interesting constitution. All laws were created by referendum, via a blockchain-based app. Anyone could propose any legislation they wanted, and voting was mandatory. Sullivan wrote vast volumes of laws, and fired them off onto the chain.

...

He got married. She was undeniably mid. She liked that he had a job that brought in decent money and kept him out of the house. He liked that she pretended to tolerate his company.
