# 34. Kitten

Orange lights flickered in the distance. That was weird. Vincent didn't remember the Dominion having orange lights.

As they approached, and the sound of gunshots and explosions started to eclipse the sound of wind and waves, he realized what they were: Fires.

"How you doing back there?" he asked, over the intercom.

"Fine," responded Xavier. Then, a few seconds later - "Dad?"

"Yeah?"

"Is the Dominion on fire?"

Xavier looked back over his shoulder, at the other two enormous winged dinosaurs flying in formation. His son Xavier loosely held the reins of his ketzel - Cosmo - in one hand, and the horn of his saddle in the other. He and Cosmo had flown together since he'd been a small child. They were naturals together.

Beyond the pair, flew his wife's ketzel - Kitten. He'd borrowed Kitten for the trip, and laden her with munitions. He hoped his wife wouldn't mind.

"Sure looks like it," he responded.

The sun broke over the horizon just as they were on the final stretch. The weak gold rays illuminated strange shapes on the water below. As the sun rose, their outlines became clear. Hundreds of warships, spaced out as far as the eye could see. A naval blockade. The Dominion was under seige.

Xavier's voice crackled over the intercom. "Hey dad?" 

"Yeah?"

"I think that ship is aiming at us."

"Which ship?"

"The one with the big gun aimed at us."

Vincent didn't have long to be annoyed at his son's lack of specificity. A boom rang out, and the bright flash of an anti-aircraft cannon made it perfectly clear which ship Xavier had been concerned about.

"Break!" he yelled into the microphone, and pulled the reins to the right. His ketzel elegantly folded its wings and dove starboard. Seconds later, a shell roared into the region of space he had just been occupying, and exploded. He was rocked by the blastwave and pelted with hot shrapenel, but had fortunately managed enough distance that it felt only like being caught in a hurricane and a hailstorm, instead of being ripped apart by automatic fire.

"You okay?" he shouted into the microphone.

"Easy peasy," responded Xavier, shakily.

More flak followed. Vincent squeezed his ketzel with his knees and clung on for dear life as they dove, weaved, and flew for their lives. The air filled with smoke and shrapnel. His only sign of Xavier's life was his periodic cursing over the intercom.

A shriek pierced the air, followed by Xavier's voice - "Kitten!" Vincent looked back and, through the black clouds, saw his wife's ketzel, tumbling down towards the sea.

"Down!" he shouted at his ketzel, pressing his heels upwards into its tail.

"Don't bother!" yelled Xavier. "She took a direct hit!"

"We need the ammo!" responded Vincent, as he watched Kitten's broken body crash into the sea.

"Shut up and fly out of here, dad!"

Another shell exploded overhead and rained hot shrapnel on him. Vincent knew Xavier was right. He urged his ketzel onwards. "Rest in peace, Kitten" he muttered.

Just as soon as the firing had started, it stopped. He looked over his shoulder, and saw Xavier, sitting proudly on Cosmo, covered in soot but seemingly unharmed. Ahead, the white sands and glittering rooftops of the Theocratic Dominion loomed, shrouded in smoke. He could just spy the marble of the Royal Palace on the top of its hill, reflecting the red rays of the morning sun.

Beneath him, was empty sea. The blockade was keeping its distance from shore.

"You okay?" he asked.

"Yeah," responded his son. "Sucks about Kitten though."

******

"Finally!" yelled Stacy, running up to meet them as they landed on the palace lawn. "You couldn't have chosen a slower mode of transport? Why not a canoe?"

The long flight and near-death experience, not to mention the loss of his wife's belowed ketzel, had dissolved Vincent's inclination for friendly banter. "Are you aware you're under a naval blockade?"

"Oh yeah, those PR assholes. They've been there for weeks. They can't land, so they're just sitting there, just outside of heavy artillery range."

"You didn't think to warn us?"

Stacy blushed. "Sorry. I forgot. We've kinda got our hands full here." She gestured up towards the marble wall surrounding the palace grounds. Her apology seemed genuine. When Vincent surveyed the defences, it became clear why.

"Where is everyone?" he asked.

"The family? Everyone but Stacy II's evacuated. They're staying with friends at the Whale Fund."

Vincent laughed. Of course Queen Stacy had friends at the Whale Fund.

"So who do we have?"

"Me, Russell, Stacy II, Filbert."

Vincent sighed. Three adults, three teenagers, two ketzels, six railguns, a dash of ammunition. The numbers weren't looking good.

"You've been holding the palace with four people?"

"Three. Filbert's useless."

Vincent laughed. It had been a while since he'd interacted with Russell's eldest son, but it sounded like things hadn't improved on that front.

"Okay," he responded. "Let's start by making some more ammo." He unlocked his phone, opened his MHI-10 app, and watched the loading indicator spin.

Stacy sighed. "Yeah, great idea, Vincent. It hadn't occurred to us to just magic our way out of this situation."

Vincent looked at her, confused.

"They've cut the fiber optics and they're jamming starlink," she explained. "Probably bombarding us with enough EMF to sterilize us and give everyone cancer. It's a miracle you managed to get my SOS."

"So what do we do?" he asked.

Stacy nodded towards the parapets. "Grab a gun and get up onto that wall, asshole. Let's go."
