# 35. Fortifications 101

A shot rang out, and a section of parapet exploded next to Vincent's head. His face was pelted with shards of marble. A beautiful material, but an idiotic choice for building defensive fortifications. Vincent would have gone with granite. A little less aesthetic, but much less prone to shattering.

"Keep your head down!" advised Stacy.

"Thanks," responded Vincent. "I hadn't figured that out." He wiped his face. It was bleeding.

"You okay dad?" asked Xavier, who was crouched well below the parapet and struggling under the weight of three railguns and several cases of ammo.

"Yeah, fine," responded Vincent, blinking the blood out of his eyes. "Head down. Got it."

They crept their way to one of the bastions, jutting out beyond the perimeter of the wall. The others were waiting there.

"Took you long enough!" exclaimed Filbert.

The other two sighed, not bothering to conceal their lack of gratitude for Filbert's contributions. "Thanks for coming," said Stacy II, summoning a weak smile in Xavier's direction.

"No worries! Didn't have anything better to do," responded Xavier, magnanimously neglecting to mention the engineering marvel he'd just created and left, in order to fly off to a distant island and face gunfire. "Is this the only bastion you're defending?" he asked, skeptically.

The star-shaped palace wall had five bastions.

"This is the one closest to the bridge," responded Russell. "Most of their forces are concentrated here."

Vincent and Xavier raised matching eyebrows.

"We have guns on the other ones, randomly firing on a timer," followed up Russell. "It seems to be fooling them for now."

The newcomers appeared unconvinced.

"Who are these people anyway?" asked Xavier, who had still not really caught up with the situation.

"Pro-democracy protesters!" responded Filbert, a little too enthusiastically.

"Ostensible pro-democracy protestors," corrected Stacy. "Actually, they're a bunch of barely-concealed agents from the PR. Not a single actual Dominion citizen wants democracy."

"Queen Stacy can't stomach the idea that her subjects might not all adore her" laughed Filbert. "Why would the PR send agents to overthrow you anyway?"

"Hm, good question! Why don't you ask your dad?" shot back Stacy.

Russell sighed. "Son, we're guests here. Act with some respect."

"Do you have loyalists?" asked Vincent.

Stacy nodded. "Mostly manning the artillery," she responded. "They're the reason the PR's navy hasn't already crushed us. There have been some skirmishes between them and the 'revolutionaries', but" - she gestured at the smoke rising from the various fires - "nothing decisive."

"And you didn't think to reserve some loyalists to guard the palace?"

"Obviously not."

Vincent sighed. Stacy was a beloved leader, but not a military strategist. Certainly not one prepared to fight a civil uprising. "So what's the plan?" he asked.

Stacy nodded towards the cases of ammunition that Vincent and Xavier had flown in from The Anarchy. "Shoot at them until they're all dead," she said, simply.

Vincent sighed again and started distributing railguns and ammunition among the team. "As good a plan as any, all things considered," he responded.

Later, in retrospect, he would realize that it had been a terrible plan.

******

The railgun was one of Vincent's most cherished inventions. Not so much the gun itself, but the ammunition.

A conventional bullet must perform well in three very different conditions. First, during the initial propulsion stage, the bullet must survive and be accelerated by an intense shock wave of heat and pressure. Secondly, during the ballistic stage, the bullet must slice through the air with extreme precision while conserving as much kinetic energy as possible. Finally, upon impact, the bullet must first penetrate its target before dumping into it as much kinetic energy as it can, to inflict maximum damage.

By avoiding the necessity of surviving a gunpowder conflagration in the first stage, Vincent was able to design a bullet that flew far straighter and inflicted vastly more damage than a conventional round. Absurdly powerful, supercapacitor-driven, superconductor-based electromagnets accelerated the projectile down the barrel by pulling, not pushing. The carefully designed magnetic field cradled the delicate, rare-earth-infused projectile as it ripped it down the length of the barrel.

The projectile exited the muzzle at six thousand feet per second - twice as fast as a conventional sniper bullet, and over five times the speed of sound. It was shaped more like a dart than a bullet, and its ever-so-slightly curved tail fins caused it to spin like a top as it sliced through the air.

Upon impact, the single-atom-wide diamond-tipped spearhead met almost no resistance from even the tightest Kevlar weave. The dart continued to penetrate with almost no resistance until a flared section two centimeters along the shaft caused its rapid deceleration. As the head decelerated, the still-moving tail section piled into it, pushing forwards on an expansion mechanism and causing the head to open outwards. The overall effect was like opening a cocktail umbrella into the target at mach five.

Any impact to a human torso caused massive internal damage, no exit wound, and instant death. Even being shot in a limb was typically fatal, due either to the hydrostatic shock on impact or the massive hemorrhage from the limb being blown off.

Of course, the beautiful lethality of the round only mattered if it hit its target. In conventional warfare, up to fifty thousand rounds were expended per confirmed enemy casualty. With the amount of ammunition Vincent and Xavier had managed to bring, they'd be lucky to kill a tenth of an enemy. Fortunately, the railguns had a feature to assist with aiming, too.

Instead of an optical sight, each railgun had simple iron sights, a long-range infrared camera, and two triggers. When the middle-finger trigger was depressed, a computer inside the railgun searched the infrared image for heat signatures, and activated a small control moment gyroscope. The subtle torque from the gyroscope encouraged the gun to move. As long as the operator was relaxed enough, the gun would aim itself at the hottest spot in its narrow field of view. Then, with a simple squeeze of the main trigger, the projectile would be launched and the target obliterated.

Of course, it's hard to stay relaxed when you're receiving fire for the first time in your life, while crouched behind a parapet that shatters on impact.

The two Stacies and Xavier were the most enthustiastic combatants. They each stood proudly, head over the wall, railgun butt pressed into their shoulders, eyes to the iron sights. The younger Stacy had her gun on full auto, and enthusiastically fired long volleys in the direction of enemy muzzle flash. Xavier and the elder Stacy were much more conservative of their ammunition, prefering to fire off well-aimed single shots. Vincent and Xavier mostly acted at spotters, while occasionally taking out stray enemy combatants when it was more expedient to do so than to explain where they were. Filbert found a useful role for himself, shuttling ammunition from the rapidly emptying cases to the rest of the team (mostly Stacy II).

Vincent estimated that the team achieved two hundred rounds per kill - two orders of magnitude better than a conventional battallion - while not taking a single casualty. Not bad for a bunch of amateurs.

The battlefield intensity waxed and waned throughout the morning, with periods of heavy fire being followed by quieter periods of relative respite. After a few hours, the gunfire ceased altogether.

After five minutes of silence, Filbert voiced the question that was on everyone's minds. "Did we win?"

"Too early to say," responded Vincent. "Stay vigilant."

The team lowered their guns and crouched as low as they could while maintaining sight of the battlefield. After twenty minutes had elapsed, they started to relax.

"That wasn't so bad!" exclaimed Russell, happily. "Nice guns, Vincent. All in a day's work, eh?"

"Can I keep mine?" asked Stacy II, cradling her railgun to her chest.

Vincent winced at the lack of gun safety awareness on display, before spying movement out of the corner of his eye. A truck was driving up the road to the palace. "Who's that?" he asked.

The elder Stacy shook her head. "No one good. Loyalists would be flying the flag."

"Frig," responded Vincent and raised his gun.

The team fired round after round at the truck. The windshield exploded, to reveal an empty cockpit.

"It's self-driving!" yelled Xavier.

"Go for the tires!" instructed Vincent.

They obliterated the tires and shredded the body, but the self-driving truck trundled forwards on bare steel rims until it came to the huge wooden bridge spanning the palace moat.

"Okay, blow the bridge!" shouted Vincent.

"What?" responded Stacy.

Vincent looked at her, confused. "You didn't rig the bridge to explode?"

"Why would I do that?" she asked.

Vincent swore loudly. "Don't repeat that," he added hastily to the teenagers. "You always rig the bridge to blow, Stacy! This is like, fortifications 101!"

"Well, I didn't take fortifications 101!" she argued. "No one tells me these things!"

The truck crossed the bridge, came to a stop at the enormous gate in the marble wall, and exploded.

The team was, once again, pelted with shards of falling marble.  When the smoke and dust cleared, the damage was evident. The gate had been replaced with a gaping hole. A gigantic section of wall had collapsed, filling the moat with huge chunks of marble. The defences had thoroughly been breached.

"Uh, guys?" asked Filbert.

"We know, Filbert," responded Russell curtly, surveying the damage.

"Not the wall," said Filbert. "Over there." He pointed down the road the truck had just driven up.

A horde of dirtbike-mounted paramilitaries, dressed all in black, was racing up the road.

"Oh, bollocks," said Stacy, before turning to Vincent with a steely expression. "Take the kids and go."

"I'm staying!" he responded, lifting his railgun to his shoulder.

Stacy shoved him in the chest and smacked him furiously in the face. "This isn't your fight! Take the kids and get the hell out of here!" she shouted.

Vincent looked at Russell, who nodded curtly before raising his gun to his shoulder and aiming it at the rapidly approaching swarm. He rhythmically fired single shot after single shot. Vincent hoped he was managing much better than two hundred rounds per kill.

Vincent looked back to Stacy. Her jaw was set, and her eyes filled with tears. He nodded at her, and kicked the sole remaining ammo can towards her and Russell.

"Come on, kids" he said. "Let's go."

Vincent and the three teenagers sprinted along the remaining section of wall, not bothering to crouch for cover behind the parapet. They ran down the stairs to the palace grounds, where the two terrified ketzels lay cowering under a tree.

"Take Stacy," he yelled at Xavier, before grabbing Filbert's hand. "Come on," he said to Filbert, and mounted his ketzel.

The ketzels had been equipped for single flyers with cargo, and lacked pillion saddles. The unfortunate passengers had to sit on the luggage racks and cling onto the pilots. It was an uncomfortable arrangement, but preferable to being torn apart in a violent revolt. The teenagers took their positions, and the dinosaurs spread their wings. They took off just as the dirtbikes breached the palace grounds.
