# 37. Trials and Interrogations

Stacy was marched, handcuffed into the courtroom and thrown to the floor. She looked up at the bench and saw an unfamiliar man sitting in robes in her seat. He banged the gavel and smiled.

"All rise," he commanded.

"You don't say that part," Stacy objected. "That's the bailiff's line."

Sullivan banged the gavel again and smiled. "My court, my rules. All rise."

Stacy climbed to her feet and sat down in the defendant's seat without waiting for permission to be seated.

"I should hold you in contempt of the court," Sullivan said.

"Add it to my list of charges."

"I don't think I have room," replied Sullivan, waving a piece of paper. It was covered in writing.

"Let's get on with it then."

"Very well. Stacy, you stand accused of the following violations of international law: Harbouring fugitives. Discrimination on the basis of political opinion. Discrimination on the basis of appearance. Breach of due process. Violation of legal safeguards against arbitrary exile. Infringement on freedom of religion. Homophobia. Islamophobia. Transphobia. Violation of the right to democratic representation. How do you plead?"

"Go pound sand," Stacy suggested.

Sullivan banged his gavel. "Order in the court!" he shouted, and smiled. "You know you're the reason I came to New Sealand?" he asked, breaking character.

Stacy looked at him, quizzically.

"Your social media posts, all those years ago. I applied because of you. You changed my life."

"If I let you in to New Sealand, I don't exactly see how you can accuse me of discrimination on the basis of appearance," Stacy said, icily.

Sullivan frowned, and pounded the gavel. "How do you plead?" he repeated.

"Go jump in a lake."

"Was it fun, playing queen? Didn't anyone tell you, monarchies are discredited? They're basically illegal, under international law."

"International law isn't real," Stacy responded. "You made all those crimes up."

Sullivan smiled. "All laws are made up. It's actually a hobby of mine. Anyway, the point is - the Dominion is over. Democracy has dawned on the TD! Elections will be held. Life, liberty, pursuit of happiness! The consent of the governed!"

"The consent of the governed!" Stacy scoffed. "The only time people are governed is when they don't consent. I don't consent to this ridiculous trial, for instance. Is that stopping you? Can I leave?"

Sullivan banged the gavel again. "On second thought, I am going to hold you in contempt of the court. Also, I find you guilty, on all counts. I sentence you to death. Off with your head!"

******

Stacy had planned to hold her head high and walk with dignity onto the stage that had been set up in the public square. When push came to shove, though, she found herself flailing against her restraints, swearing and gnashing her teeth at the guards.

A guillotine had been set up for the occasion. A small crowd had gathered to watch. No one she recognized. Some faceless bureaucrat read out the list of charges, and she was forced into the pillory. A basket had been placed in front of her to catch her falling head. She swore her final words at the bureaucrat, thought her final prayers, and the blade dropped.

******

Russell's hood was lifted. He squinted as his eyes adjusted to the harsh light. He was naked, zip-tied to a chair. He was freezing. A pair of wires ran from a power supply on the floor to two alligator clips attached to his scrotum. The pain was sharp and immense.

"You know, some people pay good money for this kind of treatment," said a nasal voice.

Russell turned his head to the source of the voice, and identified Sullivan. "I thought I told you to go to hell," he said.

"Maybe I did and brought you with me."

"I don't see any flames."

"I can do flames!" responded Sullivan cheerfully, and picked a blowtorch off a shelf. He ignited it briefly to show off the blue flame, before switching it off and placing it back on the shelf.  "But hopefully it won't come to that. I would prefer to have a civil conversation."

"Right. I see we're off to a good start."

"Your friend Stacy is dead," Sullivan said, matter-of-factly. "Your friends and family in the Anarchy will soon be as well. Nothing I can do about it, I'm afraid. The people demand liberty! But there is something you can do to stop it."

Russell spat at Sullivan. Sullivan ignored it. It was a common occurrence at this stage of an interrogation.

"Where is the computer?" he asked.

"I told you last time, I have no idea what you're talking about," Russell replied.

Sullivan switched on the power supply. Russell felt unimaginable pain, as if the demons of hell had descended upon his scrotum with white-hot circular saws. Sullivan switched it off. A wave of endorphins rushed over Russell.

"Where is the computer?" repeated Sullivan.

"Go to hell," Russell responded.

******

Room 4 was Sullivan's favourite of the Department of National Security's enhanced interrogation facilities. It was calming - something about the *feng shui*. He moved on from the power supply to the hand tool cabinet. He enjoyed working with hand tools - it felt artisanal, organic. He picked up a pair of vice grips, and set about removing Russell's fingernails.

He interrogated Russell for sixteen hours a day for the next three days. During the night, he left the interrogatee zip-tied to a crucifix with the lights and stereo on full blast, playing a loop of Hip to be Square by Huey Lewis and the News. Russell refused to crack. Sullivan began to regret executing Stacy so hastily - she probably also knew how to access the computer. How was he supposed to have known that Russell would be so damn stubborn?

The mood in the People's Republic was already starting to decline. The news of the Dominion's liberation had brought the population together in a brief, rhapsodic celebration of national pride and ideological superiority. The three days that had elapsed since then may as well have been ten years in the ADHD-afflicted consciousness of the general public. New inflation numbers had been released. Despite mathematical hijinks by the Department of Statistics, the numbers were bad. Even his wife was starting to complain about the cost of basic goods.

Sullivan was feeling the pressure. His boss was leaning hard on the team to replenish the gold reserves. Raiding the Dominion's comparatively puny vaults hadn't helped as much as anyone had hoped. What's more, the invasion had been expensive. So far, the entire operation had probably netted the PR's government less than a month of runway.

Russell was the key to ending the pain, Sullivan was sure of it. With the computer in the hands of the Executive Branch of the People's Republic, they wouldn't just fix the economy - they would fix the human condition. People would be assigned to their optimal job, and their optimal spouse. Cancers would be detected when they were a single cell. Criminals would be arrested before committing any crimes - or even better, their criminal intent would be flagged at conception and they'd be aborted in the womb.

Order would be brought to the planet. The world would know peace. Misery itself would be eradicated. Sullivan smiled to himself as he held the blowtorch to the interrogatee's feet. He truly was a savior in the making. He wondered what pose he'd strike for the magazine covers.

******

Russell was delirious. Huey Lewis's magnum opus played on repeat in his head even when the stereo was switched off. He had not slept in what felt like years. He was starving, burned, mutilated, humiliated. His tormentor flitted in and out of his awareness, occasionally appearing from the white haze that dominated his vision, to brandish some new repurposed implement from the hardware store.

The more Russell tried not to think about the computer, the more it filled his mind. Snippets of code scrolled across the white haze. Past chats with the LLM played out in his ears, synchronized to Hip to be Square. A medieval scroll opened up, displaying the README.txt that he'd first found on the computer, all those years ago.

"Best of luck! Call me if you need anything!" read the final line of the scroll.

Russell was infuriated. "Call me if you need anything." Those were the last words he'd ever received from Steve, over twenty years ago.

"Ring ring, hello Steve!" he thought, sarcastically. "Could you please send some more specific instructions? Maybe a divine telephone?"

"Oh hey Russell! Good to hear from you!" replied a voice in his head. "Hang on, let me get my headset."

Russell froze. The delirium evaporated. His awareness snapped back into full detail. He was zip-tied to the chair again. His left hand was secured by several hose clamps, which appeared to have been welded to a steel plate. His interrogator, face covered in a welding mask, was attempting to fabricate a small arch on the plate, looping directly over his horrifically burned pinky. The steel glowed red.

"Man, I really suck at TIG welding," Sullivan laughed to no one in particular. "Oh well! If at first, you don't succeed..."

Russell inspected the arch. He agreed with Sullivan's assessment of his welding abilities. His creation largely resembled a pair of miniature soft-serve ice creams put together by a fast food worker with Parkinson's. Sullivan activated the torch again, and the white-hot arc electrified the few undamaged nerves in Russell's desiccated remains of a pinky, blasting a fresh shock wave of pain directly into his brain. He slipped back into the haze.

"How have you been?" asked Steve's voice.

"Been better," responded Russell.

"Hah! I bet! It looks like you're in quite the pickle!", Steve commiserated. "How can I help? Can't do much in the way of interventions, I'm afraid, but I can offer you an encouraging word! How about, er, 'bloody legend, mate!'"

"Cheers, mate," replied Russell. "How about you disconnect the MHI-10 before I crack and give this guy access?"

"Are you sure? I'm seeing pretty high CPU usage on that thing. There's a lot running on it."

"I'm sure."

"It's kinda the foundation of your society."

"Goddamn it Steve! Kill the server!"

"Fine, fine. Stand by."

A couple of minutes of silence elapsed. Russell regained enough consciousness to reinspect Sullivan's handiwork. A large chunk of the previous arch attempt had melted off, incinerating a crater through his skin and solidifying on the bone. Russell's nostrils were filled with the metallic fumes of vaporized welding wire and the stench of his own burned flesh. Sullivan was humming Hip to be Square.

Steve's voice returned. "Okay, done! Hope that doesn't cause any problems. Anything else?"

"Is my family alive?"

"Let me check." The voice paused for a few moments. "Well, the vast majority of your ancestors are dead. Your grandparents-"

"My wife and kids," Russell clarified.

"Ah, right. Yes. They're all alive."

"How is Filbert?"

"Um. Are you referring to the quality of his character, or his mortal state?"

"Mortal state."

"Very much alive."

"Thanks," responded Russell. "Last request. Kill me please."

"Oh. Are you finished down there?"

"Yes. I'm quite done."

Steve paused again. Then, "you realize I could have just done that instead of disconnecting the server, right?"

"Shut up, Steve."

"Okie dokie! Stand by!"

******

Sullivan successfully joined the two soft-serve ice creams together. He'd learned that the secret was to not allow the steel to overheat. He flitted the torch between the two sides of the arch, dragging the small pool of molten steel between the ice creams, bulking it up by dabbing the welding wire in as it crossed the middle. As long as he didn't keep the torch in one place too long, the steel would cool sufficiently to not liquefy into a puddle on the interrogatee's finger.

When he had finally added enough steel, he stopped and smiled. It looked pretty crude, but he could smooth it out. He walked over to the power tool cabinet and selected the angle grinder and a sandpaper flap disk. The end result would still be rough, but "good enough for government work," as his dad used to say.

He returned to his seat, humming Hip to be Square. Damn catchy song. Something about the funky baseline. As he strategized on how best to position the grinder to not sever the interrogatee's finger, he made an uncomfortable discovery: Russell was dead.

Damn. That wasn't supposed to happen. What now?
