# Chapter 4

"Whatcha up to?"

Steve had stopped by Gabe's office to consult his opinion on important lunch-related matters, but became distracted by the clutter on the screen and the frenetic manner in which Gabe was typing into a spreadsheet and clutching his hair.

"FIVE stars, Steve! FIVE! And those are only the ones visible to the naked eye!"

"Hm?" Steve could tell that lunch wouldn't be forthcoming and was beginning to regret his choice of dining partner.

"Five stars have disappeared from the night sky in the past thousand years. Look!"

He gestured across his spreadsheet at a haphazard pile of numbers, notes, e-mail snippets and URLs which, while Steve found incomprehensible, he could easily judge as an inappropriate collection of data for a spreadsheet. Steve nodded. "Ah yes, I see."

"The astrologers have been all over it for centuries, and no one bothered to tell us until - well, it doesn't matter. And look, they're all in the same quadrant!"

More gesticulations at the chaotic table of seemingly random artifacts.

"Mhm."

"I need your help", Gabe pleaded.

Finally, something sensible. "Yes, you might", Steve agreed.

"I need to find all the stars that have disappeared that aren't visible to the naked eye. Can you help me program the telescope?"

Steve spent a barely perceptible moment mourning his afternoon plans. They had involved a hearty lunch, a light nap, and a VR stroll in his favourite StevieNix garden where he'd been working on a bipedal fork of the Great Apes. But it wasn't every day that a colleague asked for a favour, and if the state of the spreadsheet was any indication, Gabe was in over his head.

"Sure, no problem. Where's the manual?"

--

Imagine five trees catch fire in a forest. If you are standing some distance from the forest, all the individual burning trees would appear to be close together - perhaps taking up only a couple of degrees in your field of view. You would feel relatively unthreatened by the fire, and your attitude upon noticing the burning trees may be akin to "how unusual, someone ought to do something about that".

Now, imagine the same five trees catching fire in the same forest, except you are standing much closer to them. The first major difference is that they would be spread out more widely across your field of view, taking up more degrees. In the extreme limit, if you are right in the middle of the burning grove, the affected trees will take up 360 degrees of your field of view and your attitude will be closer to abject terror.

The five disappeared stars took up twenty degrees of the sky. There was cause for concern.

--

Programming the telescope turned out to not be that hard in the end. The telescope's manual was located, and Steve was pleasantly surprised to find that its manufacturer had designed a fairly intuitive programmatic interface. The hardest part was figuring out how to turn it on and log in. In a couple of hours, they had the focus set to infinity and the telescope was panning around on demand.

In order to not have to scan the entire night sky, they drew a bounding box around the region containing the five known-disappeared stars - twenty degrees up, twenty degrees across. They added another ten degrees on each side for good measure, making a total of forty degrees in each dimension. The university's telescope had a fairly wide field of view of 1 degree, meaning the entire region could be captured in 1600 frames. At 15 seconds per frame, it would take a little under 7 hours to scan the whole area. Steve and Gabe uploaded the gcode to the telescope, sent one of Gabe's unfortunate astronomy students up to clean the lens, made tea, and settled in to wait for nightfall.

There was no immediate task at hand, and neither Gabe nor Steve were fond of nor skilled at small talk. Thus, they sat in a silent stalemate and sipped their tea - Steve wishing Gabe would address the elephant in the room and Gabe wishing Steve wouldn't.

After a few minutes of uncomfortable silence, Steve disregarded both of their wishes and asked the big question. "What do you think is causing it?"

Gabe looked down at his cup and didn't answer.

"Stars can't just run out of fuel this quickly, right? You get some advance warning?"

"Yes, it's usually either very drawn out or very dramatic" Gabe responded.

"Can stars become black holes without first going all supernova?"

"It's theoretically possible, but there's nothing near us that's big enough. The closest star that could even go supernova is Betelgeuse and that's six exameters away."

Steve thought back to his garden in StevieNix. There was a Betelgeuse there too, but it would never go supernova. The entire night sky was an illusion - millions of carefully placed point light sources, modeled after scans of their own sky taken tens of thousands of years ago. He could make Betelgeuse vanish with one change to a config file.

"Could it be...Are there any signs that this universe could be..."

"StevieNix?"

Steve laughed nervously.

"No. No offence, Steve, but our universe isn't a stack of hacks in the corner of the CS department. For starters, our physics actually makes sense."

Steve didn't take offence. He could tell that his friend was getting agitated, so he changed tack to the only other plausible explanation.

"So, aliens then?"

"Yeah", sighed Gabe. "Aliens then."
