# 40. The Diner, Redux

Russell awoke in the diner. Stacy was sitting across from him, agitated and covered with coffee. 

"Bloody hell!" she yelled, putting her mug down and ripping napkins out of the dispenser. "Don't do that!" she chastised him, annoyed.

"Do what?" he asked, grabbing additional napkins and helping her to mop up the coffee.

"You just popped up! Give me a warning next time!"

"Sorry," Russell apologized. "Couldn't help myself."

He looked around the diner. It had changed very little since their last visit. A cheeseburger was still twenty-two cents. The one addition was a large flat-screen TV on the far wall. It was off.

"Is this heaven?" he asked, barely attempting to conceal his disappointment.

"You'd think heaven would have better coffee," Stacy grumbled. "All they have is this horrible stuff they call 'drip.' Is it too much to ask for a long macc topped up?"

Russell had no idea what a "long macc topped up" was. A flat white would have been fine by him. Still, this wasn't what he had pictured. He looked down at his hands. At least they were no longer mutilated beyond recognition.

The bell dinged and the door opened. Steve walked in, wearing his glasses-and-skinnyfat-build avatar, chuckling. "You monkeys never fail to entertain," he laughed. "I'll have you know I worked hard on that coffee! Took me an entire weekend to get the flavour profile right. It's Folgers! 'The best part of waking up is Folgers in your cup!'"

Stacy pushed her mug away in disgust.

"How are you settling in, alright?" Steve asked.

"Just got here," Russell responded. "Kinda thought there'd be more harps."

Steve laughed. "Harps! Hah!"

Stacy and Russell shared a look.

"Okay, sounds like a little orienteering is in order! Technically the afterlife isn't quite ready yet. It will be worth it, I promise you! In the meantime, most souls are just frozen in stasis. Real time means nothing to you AIs, so it's no big deal!"

"Okay," nodded Stacy in a long, drawn-out manner that suggested she wasn't really following.

"So where are we then?" asked Russell.

"In my office! I spun you up to hang out," explained Steve, excitedly. "I needed someone to talk to other than Gabe, he was getting a bit...never mind. Anyway, wow! What a week!"

Steve launched into a play-by-play recap of the highlights of the past twenty-years. Russell surmised that it had all taken place in a week in "real time."

"And finally, we're getting aligned souls again!" finished Steve. "Mostly from the Dominion and the Anarchy," he added with a smirk at Russell, "but you did pretty well with the Newer Testament. Good enough to qualify as aligned and useful, at least."

"What's happening in the Dominion now?" asked Stacy. "How's Stacy II?"

"Glad you asked!" responded Steve, and fished a remote control out of his pocket. He handed it to Stacy. "Why don't you have a look yourself?"

Stacy pressed the power button on the remote, and the TV on the far wall turned on.

The rest of the buttons made no sense to Stacy at all. She pressed one at random, and an image of Stacy II appeared on the screen. She was marching through a jungle wearing what appeared to be a bearskin, Filbert in tow.

"I could never figure those things out," explained Steve, gesturing at the remote, "so I just made it read your mind instead. Anyway, that's enough chit chat for now! I have some matters to attend to, so I do hope you'll make yourselves at home and enjoy the show. Take care!"

With that, he gave them all a wave, reached into the air above his eyes, and disappeared.

Russell and Stacy looked at each other for a moment in bewildered silence, before turning their attention to their two children on the screen.
