# 41

Archibald reluctantly led Stacy II, Filbert, and Cosmo to his village. When they arrived, the ceremony was already underway.

A woman in her forties, clad in a crude and skimpy leather approximation of a pencil skirt and blouse, was standing on a rock at the head of the square. A crowd of a dozen boys and men of every age stood in the square, looking up at her and jeering. A long flower garland was strung between two poles, separating the woman from the crowd.

A man, whom Stacy II assumed to be Archibald's stepfather, was addressing the crowd, recounting the achievements of the individuals therein.

"And Blake! Who remembers the time Blake had that head-to-head with a mountain goat? We all thought he was dead for sure!"

The crowd laughed and directed their attentions to a tall, stooped man in his 30s, presumably Blake.

"When he grabbed the goat and started rolling down the hill with it in a chokehold, I was like 'oh man, now I have to find a new chandler. This one's broken.'"

More laughter.

"But he reached the bottom of the hill and stood right up, with his arm still wrapped around that goat's neck, didn't he? And we all had goat stew and goat tallow candles for days, didn't we?"

Cheers from the crowd. A couple of people clapped Blake on his back.

"What a guy, I tell you! What a guy. Does he deserve celibacy?"

Enthusiastic boos and "nos" emanated from the crowd.

"Or does he deserve human rights?"

The crowd chanted, "Human rights! Human rights!"

"Don't we all deserve human rights?"

"Human rights! Human rights!"

Archibald's stepfather waited for the crowd to quiet, strode over to the garland, and pulled a bone dagger out from somewhere in his furs. He smiled at his erstwhile wife, who glared at him in return.

Holding the garland in one hand and the dagger in the other, he turned to face the crowd and announced, "By the authority vested in me, I hereby bequeath this resource to the public. It shall be public property, to be shared by all, for the good of the common man." He cut the garland, allowed the two halves to fall to the poles, stepped backwards, and wrapped his arm around the woman's legs to the sound of cheers and applause from the audience.

"Now," he asked, "who wants to have the first crack at her, eh?"

From their hiding spot behind a hut, Stacy II whispered to Filbert. "Shoot him!"

"What, now?" Filbert asked, incredulously. "You couldn't have asked for that thirty seconds ago?"

"The timing has to be right!"

"I don't have a clear shot!"

"It wouldn't have had the same effect thirty seconds ago!"

"It won't have the same effect either if I blow her head off, okay?"

Stacy II balled her fists. Just as Filbert was starting to work his way into her good graces, he had to revert to his old ways. "Shut up, man up, and just aim better!"

Filbert sighed, raised his railgun, and stepped out from behind the hut. He depressed the aiming trigger, and tried his best to relax. Fortunately, Archibald's stepfather was a substantially larger target than his mother, and the railgun's computer locked onto his heat signature with ease.

In his final moment, Archibald's stepfather noticed Filbert, standing in the open, with his railgun aimed towards him. He opened his mouth to object, and his torso imploded as the hypersonic projectile slammed into his chest and threw him off his feet. 

The crowd was splattered with blood. Archibald's mother was showered in it. No one said a word.

Stacy II strode out from behind the hut, railgun held lazily at her side. Cosmo followed, waddling awkwardly on his talons. "Say the line," she whispered icily to Filbert as she passed him.

"All hail her royal highness, Queen Stacy the Second!" recited Filbert loudly.

The confused and blood-splattered crowd turned to face the newcomers, and recoiled at the sight of the dinosaur. They shouted and scattered to the edges of the square, leaving the path between the trio and Archibald's mother deserted. Stacy II and her entourage walked up to take the position at the head of the square. Archibald's mother, similarly leery of the ketzel and its accompanying strangers, jumped off her rock and ran away to mild objections from the crowd.

"Go on," Stacy II said to Cosmo, nodding at the stepfather's fresh corpse. Having already eaten a large meal a few hours ago, Cosmo was notably less enthusiastic this time round. Nonetheless, he happily ripped the corpse apart with his beak and talons and nibbled away at the choicer cuts and organs. This still had the desired effect on the audience.

"Hello, everyone!" Stacy II announced over the sound of Cosmo's culinary activities. "I am your queen, Stacy the Second."

The crowd grumbled.

"I am here to offer you a deal."

The crowd silenced.

"Your service, in exchange for pardon."

The crowd exploded into heated muttering. Stacy II couldn't make any of it out, so she continued.

"It has come to my attention," she announced, "that you live under an oppressive regime. The House of Lords, who sits in the city, taxing your children and treating them as slaves."

There was little reaction from the audience. Stacy II had suspected that this would happen. The majority of citizens of New Australia were likely not taxpayers and benefited from the redistributive policies of the regime.

