# 42. The Refusegee Crisis

Everybody produces sewage. In a modern society, few ever think about it, and most have very little understanding about how it is managed. The People's Republic was so modern that not a single person ever spent any amount of time thinking about sewage. There were no plumbers or wastewater treatment workers in the PR - all the work was done by robots.

The most important detail to know about sewage is that it flows downhill. All sewage systems are designed as networks of slightly downhill-sloping pipes. This usually works quite well, except when there is no feasible downhill path between a house and a sewage treatment plant. Then, the sewage must be made to flow uphill. 

This is accomplished by a "lift station." A lift station is composed of a well, a number of pumps (typically two), and a set of floats. Incoming sewage is collected in the well. The floats detect the amount of sewage that has amassed. When the level of the sewage gets high enough, a pump is activated and the sewage is pumped uphill. From its newly elevated position, the sewage can resume its ordinary downhill trajectory.

If a lift station fails, disaster follows. Before long, the well is filled and the sewage has nowhere to go. It starts to back up out of the lowest points it can find - bringing with it fecal-borne diseases such as cholera, dysentery, and hepatitis A.

People often credit medical innovations with the dramatic increase in life expectancy seen in the twentieth century. Aside from antibiotics, this is inaccurate. The real heroes of the twentieth century, were the engineers who built the sewage systems.

Lift stations in the Old World were monitored and maintained by unsung workers on a meticulous schedule. But not in the People's Republic. The PR was, after all, built by Russell - a programmer with an omniscient supercomputer.

Why would you implement a failure-prone system of floats to detect the level of sewage in a lift station, when your omniscient computer already knows the level to nanoscale precision? Why dispatch humans to check up on the system when the MHI-10 already knows the amount of wear and tear on every component? Why design the system to be human-maintainable at all, when you have a fleet of trillions of tiny robots, who can navigate the pipes and fix any issue before anyone has noticed?

For two full decades, the sewage system in the PR worked flawlessly. Effluent was effortlessly discarded, and it was so far from people’s minds that no one even thought that someone else should think about it. It was so perfect that it was invisible.

Until the MHI-10 was disconnected. Then, it was all anyone could think about. Hell, as it turns out, is other people's fecal matter backing up through your shower drain.

Within hours, vast sections of the PR were rendered uninhabitable. Elevated areas were overrun with hordes of sewage refugees, fleeing the unbearable stench of the low-lying regions. Fights broke out. Shops were looted. Neighbourhood defence militias were organized. A referendum was drafted.

The "Help Refugees in Crisis Act" made it illegal to refuse shelter to anyone fleeing a crisis, which was explicitly defined to include the current sewage situation. It also made it illegal to infringe on another's "right to food and basic necessities," which not only decriminalized looting, but criminalized attempts to prevent the ransacking of stores, warehouses, and even private pantries. The police were dispatched to disband the neighbourhood defence militias and arrest the private security forces attempting to defend grocery and department stores.

Within a few days, People's Republican society was unrecognizable. The lowlands that comprised the bulk of the PR had been completely sacrificed, the lowermost houses having been converted by gravity and pressure into above-ground septic tanks. Eighty percent of the population had been displaced, crowding into the spare rooms, living rooms, kitchens and hallways of those fortunate enough to live at elevation. Every shop, restaurant, and depot had been raided completely empty of food, with importers refusing to import any more until they were made whole for the goods they had lost.

The Executive Branch stepped in. A Food Task Force was assembled, which purchased vast quantities of wheat, corn, and soy on the global commodities markets. The military was mobilized to distribute the rations. Overnight, the official entirety of the People's Republican diet became unleavened bread, grits, and tofu. A black market emerged for illicitly imported ingredients, peddled by people with the means and willingness to collect eye-watering prices for their goods in direct contravention of the Help Refugees in Crisis Act.

The Military Corps of Engineers was tasked with finding a solution to the sewage problem. Their conclusion was less than optimistic: There was no way to modify the old sewage system; it was cast into the polymerized fullerene foundations of the island itself. The easiest way to reclaim the lowlands was to build an entirely new, above-ground sewage system. One in every five buildings would have to sacrificed and converted into lift stations, pumping sewage out of their drains and up the necessary inclines. It would take months and the result would be unreliable, unsanitary, and an aesthetic disaster. The most feasible alternative was to pave over the lowlands entirely, building new cities over top of the originals, with conventional human-maintainable sewage systems.

Their report was immediately classified. The Executive Branch was optimistic that tensions would ease as the population adapted to their new circumstances. Unfortunately, this did not play out as planned. The population divided into the "Highlanders" - the original occupants of the elevated regions - and the "Lowlanders" - alternatively termed the "Poo People", "Refusegees", and other, less charitable monikers.

Relations between the two groups were strained but stable for several weeks, until a dispute between a Highlander and a family of Lowlanders living in his bathroom turned violent. The Highlander was killed. His death became the flashpoint that ignited the explosive animosity between the two groups. 

Before long, buildings were on fire and bodies were hanging from streetlamps. The Executive Branch had to intervene. Sullivan took it upon himself to legislate their way through.

He drafted the Emergency Powers Act, which granted the Executive Branch the ability to suspend all existing laws in the face of civil unrest. It easily passed referendum. Unburdened by the necessity of pussyfooting through the quagmire of restraints built up over decades of ad hoc legislation, the Executive Branch set about solving the problem.

The problem, as they saw it, was that the Highlanders were too attached to their homes. While their feelings were understandable, they were clearly neither sustainable nor conducive to peaceful integration between the two groups. The solution was obvious: To displace the Highlanders as well.

The Executive Branch nationalized all homes. Residents were reassigned to homes on the basis of an inscrutable algorithm, that mostly took into account the residents' professions and criminal backgrounds. The highest altitude homes went to well-behaved civil servants. The lowest altitude still-habitable homes were crowded full of the loathsome individuals who had fallen afoul of the Help Refugees in Crisis Act. The military, already deployed domestically to distribute food, stepped up to ensure that the Great Reshuffling was completed with minimal protest.

Conditions in the lowest habitable regions were extremely cramped. Billboards were erected, targeting disaffected young men with a simple message: "If you don't like it, join the navy." Wishing to escape the squalor, many did. Still, it did little to ease the conditions. Something else had to be done.

Sullivan's team at the Department of National Security was reassigned. The deficit was a crisis for tomorrow - the housing, sewage, and civil unrest were crises enough for today.

No one, not even Sullivan himself, had an inkling of Sullivan's role in precipitating the current crises. As far as the Executive Branch was concerned, the regime change in the Dominion had been an unblemished success. In fact, given the TD's relatively sparse population and still-functioning sewage system, a friendly liberal democratic government could not possibly have been installed at a more convenient time. Most of Sullivan's team set about exploring channels for influencing the TD's government into accepting millions of migrants from the PR.

Sullivan, as before, chose a different path. He knew something the Military Corps of Engineers didn't. Rumours were circulating in the Anarchy's chat groups about a new island, built by the son of the Anarchy's founder. The island flew. It had taken off three days after the sewage crisis had started, and word was, they planned on building more.

Sullivan wasn't an engineer, but he understood one thing: If it was possible to build flying islands with conventional technology, someone would have done it already. Therefore, the kid wasn't using conventional technology - he was using nanoscale manufacturing. If the PR could get nanoscale manufacturing back, they could fix the sewage systems.

They could also do a whole lot more.
