# 44. The Boat People

The Terrarium worked fantastically well. Mechanically, it was quite a simple device, consisting of a cabin, six huge vacuum balloons, a swim bladder, and a set of fusion engines. Not a lot to go wrong. The more complicated aspect was the biological balance inside the cabin. It operated as a closed system, with self-contained carbon, water, and nutrient cycles. On the island's maiden flight, there was a small but noticable defecit of food. This was easily rectified with periodic dockings at market towns. Xavier was confident that balance would be achieved when the fruit trees matured.

Although the Terrarium was able to fly all the way up into the stratosphere, Xavier preferred to keep the altitude low. Born and raised in the Anarchy, he felt most at home when he could still see its familiar white beaches and conglomerations of hexagonal islands. He loved flying over the vast rainforests of Jurrasic Park, scanning the landscape for prototype dinosaur species that hadn't yet achieved commercialization. His crew, too, preferred to stay within a short ketzel hop from civilization. He mostly kept the airlocks open, and the altitude to a couple hundred meters. Visitors regularly came and went, marveling at the wonder of the flying island, and frequently asking Xavier for their own.

The stratosphere was, in comparison, extremely boring. He would close the airlocks and climb up there only in times of inclement weather. From twenty kilometers above the Earth's surface, the inhabitants could watch through portholes in the floor as the storms unfolded beneath them. Xavier hoped that the stratosphere would become more interesting once it was colonized. He and his crew started building a second island, attached to their rearmost airlock. His dad came aboard to watch the construction unfold.

"Who's it for?" Vincent asked, curiously.

"Not sure yet," Xavier responded. "Everybody and their runner wants a flying island. How did you pick who to build yours for?"

Vincent shrugged. "Mostly I went on vibes."

"Thanks, dad. You're a great help."

Vincent laughed, and looked out through the transparent carbon wall at the horizon. They were flying over a sparsely populated region on the edge of the Anarchy, and only a few isolated homesteads vere visible among the gentle waves. "I'm sure you'll figure it out," he replied. "You're a smart kid."

"Hey, what's that?" Xavier asked, pointing at a speck on the horizon. He brought up his map on his phone. "It's meant to be empty there. Current's too strong."

"Probably some homesteader, drifted off and forgotten to start his GPS beacon," Vincent suggested.

"I'm gonna go check it out. They might need help!" Xavier jogged to the wheelhouse to redirect the enormous flying island.

Vincent shrugged and followed his son.

******

As the Terrarium drew closer to the speck, it became clear that the spec wasn't a lost homesteader. It was a mastless, longtail boat, superficially modeled after a viking warship.

Vincent laughed. "Classic! I haven't seen one of those in years. Terrible choice for an oceanfaring vessel."

"Shall we say hi?" Xavier asked.

"Sure! We can ask them what museum they dug it out of. Bet they're puking their guts out."

Vincent's enthusiasm declined as they drew close enough to pick out the shapes of the individual humans on board. The boat was full of people, who were frantically waving at the enormous flying island.

"I don't like it," he said.

"Why not? It looks like they need help!" Xavier responded.

"Why are there so many of them, crammed onto that tiny boat, all the way out here?"

"Maybe it's a lifeboat, and their real ship sank?"

"New Sealand's ships don't sink. They're made out of fullerene."

"Maybe it capsized?"

"They don't do that either."

"Maybe they were in an Old World ship."

"Maybe," Vincent conceded, "but then why would they have a classic longtail as a lifeboat? It isn't right."

"I'm going to help them," Xavier stated, resolutely.

Vincent sighed. He would have done the same at Xavier's age.

******

Xavier piloted the Terrarium up alongside the vessel and matched its speed. His crew lowered a rope ladder down from an airlock, and helped the cramped mariners climb aboard the flying island. He and his father watched as his crewmembers welcomed the newcomers, supplying them with food, blankets, and fresh water. They appeared weak and sunburned. When the last person had climbed up, the crew raised the rope ladder and allowed the small boat to drift away on the waves.

"It's not a lifeboat," Vincent remarked.

"What makes you say that?" asked Xavier.

"They've got belongings," Vincent replied, pointing to the dry bags that the boat people had carried with them. "You don't bring your luggage on a lifeboat."

"Those are just dry bags, dad. They were probably in the lifeboat already. Full of provisions and stuff."

Vincent said nothing.

Xavier stepped forward proudly to greet the newcomers. "Welcome, friends, to the Terrarium! I am your captain, Xavier," he announced.

They offered a muttered, unenthusiastic response, which Xavier attributed to heatstroke. "Where have you come from, and why are you floating on a tiny boat in the middle of the Pacific Ocean?" he asked.

A pudgy man in his forties stepped forward. "We're refugees," he explained in a nasal voice. "We lost our homes in the PR, so we took to sea to to seek a better life. We were hoping you could offer us asylum."

Xavier looked back at his father, who shook his head.

"Sure," Xavier responded. "Happy to have you on board."
