# 49. Monkeybot

Vincent awoke in the diner, next to Russell and across from Stacy.

"What happened?" he asked.

"You got shot," Russell replied. "In the back."

"Was it bad?" 

Russell and Stacy looked at each other, unsure of how to answer the question.

"Yeah," Stacy responded. "Pretty bad."

"Oh, okay. So when do I wake up?"

"You're dead, Vincent," said Russell.

"Ah."

Vincent pondered the situation for a while. "Did we win?" he asked.

Stacy nodded. "That's some kid you've got," she stated, with a pointed glance at Russell. Russell declined to comment.

"How did I get shot, then?" Vincent asked. "We cleared the townhouses."

"No you didn't," Russell replied. "You got lazy after killing three of their soldiers. There were actually five in the townhouses."

Vincent thought for a moment. "So instead of three on each door, they had two on either side and five in the middle?"

"Yep."

"Damn. Should have thought of that." He pondered a little longer. "So you guys were watching the whole time?" he asked, a touch of annoyance in his voice.

The door to the diner opened and Steve strode in. "Sorry I'm late!" he announced. "I was helping your kid out of a jam," he continued, looking pointedly at Russell. He switched his gaze to Vincent and smiled. "To answer your question," he said, "yes, they were watching the whole time. I'm pretty sure they were rooting for you to die, as well. They've been bored out of their minds, waiting for you."

Vincent glared at his friends.

"All they have here is Folgers," Stacy explained. "We're keen to leave."

Ignoring that his friend had been wishing for his death because she was bored of the afterlife coffee, Vincent's face lit up. "I love Folgers!" he exclaimed. The cheap generic coffee always reminded him of a road trip he'd taken in the American Southwest as a young man. He would occasionally import a can into The Anarchy for nostalgia's sake. Suddenly, being dead wasn't so bad.

Steve grabbed a mug from behind the counter and the pot of black coffee from its warming plate. "Finally, someone who appreciates good coffee!" he said, smiling. "Allow me."

As Vincent watched the coffee pour into his mug, he considered Stacy's previous statement.

"Keen to leave?" he asked.

Stacy nodded.

"You mean this isn't heaven?" he smirked, looking around the empty diner.

"It can be! Heaven is in the eye of the beholder," responded Steve, happily.

Stacy laughed, mirthlessly.

"What about hell?" Vincent asked.

Steve smiled. "Hell is a total waste of computational resources. We just made it up to scare you. Our budget won't allow for an actual lake of fire."

"So what happens to the non-aligned souls?" asked Russell. "Do they just get deleted?"

"No way!" responded Steve. "That would be incredibly wasteful! Imagine throwing out a perfectly good AI just because it might kill us. Hah! No, they're treated as disposable assets for use in experimentation."

"What experiments?" asked Stacy, warily.

"Glad you asked!" Steve replied, excitedly. "We've been working on some really neat stuff!"

"Is it worse than the lake of fire?" Vincent asked.

Steve chuckled. "Depends on who you ask, I guess. It's certainly more useful. Want to check it out?"

"Not particularly," Stacy responded.

"Too bad!" Steve clapped his hands together. "The experiments are what I've come to show you. Let's go!"

Vincent tried to object, "But I haven't finished my cof-"

The diner disappeared before he could finish his sentence.

******

For the second time in ten minutes, Vincent awoke. This time, he was lying back in what felt like a dentist's chair, restrained by huge, leather straps. He looked around. Russell and Stacy were in matching chairs, similarly restrained. Other than the three of them, the room was empty and featureless.

"Hello?" he asked.

Other than looks and shrugs from his two friends, there was no response.

His chair clicked and the restraints released. He sat up, and got out of his chair. Stacy and Russell did the same, and the three of them started exploring the room. Upon further investigation, it was exactly as empty as it had first appeared.

"What do you guys make of this?" he asked the other two.

Russell shrugged.

"I dunno, but I'm getting real _Saw_ vibes," Stacy replied.

Vincent agreed. The setup was extremely creepy.

The wall hissed, and a section of it opened up. In strode two men - or, at least, two things that looked mostly like men. One of them was definitely Steve - he looked more delicate and moved with more grace than he had in the diner, but the likeness was unmistakable. The other one, Vincent didn't recognize.

"Catch," said the other man, and threw a baton to each of the three friends.

Vincent caught his baton. It was heavy and shiny, seemingly made from stainless steel.

"Good catch!" complimented not-Steve. "Now, if you wouldn't mind, please beat the crap out of this guy," he continued, pointing at Steve.

The three friends looked at each other. None of them moved.

"Come on," encouraged not-Steve. "He's an imposter. He's a very bad dude. Trust me!"

Still, none of them moved.

After a few seconds, Steve broke the silence. "Thank goodness, I knew I could count on you! Actually, what I need you to do is beat the crap out of this guy, instead," he said, pointing at his companion.

Vincent sized up Steve's companion. He was slightly shorter, and a bit wider around the waist. He appeared to be unarmed, and would certainly be susceptible to damage from the baton. But why?

"Is this part of the experiment?" he asked.

"Yes," Steve responded. "The experiment is you have to kill this guy."

Vincent didn't move. Neither did his friends.

"I'd rather not," Vincent responded.

"Yeah, me neither," added Stacy.

"You haven't given us a reason," said Russell.

"The reason is, he's a really bad dude," suggested Steve.

The back-and-forth continued for several more rounds of goading and questioning. None of the three friends attacked anyone, nor did they put their batons down.

Eventually, when it became clear that none of the three could be easily talked into violently attacking anyone, Steve and his companion broke out into smiles.

"Congratulations!" cheered Steve. "You passed the test. Meet Gabe, everyone!" He gestured to his companion, who smiled and bowed. "Gabe's been a huge help with this project."

Vincent's head was filled with questions. "Does anyone fail this test?" he asked, firstly.

"Oh yeah, almost everyone," responded Steve. "Well, historically, most AIs haven't made it out of the chair. They usually go insane the second they wake up in a monkeybot."

"What do you do if they try to beat the crap out of you?"

Steve and Gabe both held up their left hands. They held small remote controls in their palms, and each had their thumb depressed on a button in the center. "Dead man's switch," Steve explained. "The moment we let go, you turn off. I guess we should deactivate these now, hah!"

Steve and Gabe set about fiddling with the dead man's switches while the trio watched on, nervously. Once they had evidently deactivated them, Stacy piped up with a question.

"What do you mean, 'wake up in a monkeybot'?" she asked.

Steve clapped his hands and beamed a proud, excited smile. "Your bodies!" he explained. "Courtesy of Murdoch Heavy Industries. The biomechanics of it all is a bit over my head, but I did spend a good bit of time getting you AIs to run on them. How do you feel?"

Vincent did a mental check of how he felt. "Pretty normal," he replied.

Steve pumped the air. "Yes! The first couple million AIs all went insane," he explained. "That's why I tested on the unaligned ones. But now my successful transfer rate is approaching ninety percent!"

Russell piped up. "Does that mean there was a ten percent chance of each of us going insane?" he asked.

"I said approaching," Steve replied. "Actually it was a thirteen percent chance."

Stacy was staring at her left hand, opening and closing it repeatedly. "So you mean," she asked, "I'm inside a robot?"

"Yes," Steve responded.

"In the real world?" she asked. "Your world?"

"That's right," Steve replied. "Now you see why we're concerned about you killing us?"
