# Chapter 5

Steve and Gabe took turns napping while the telescope relentlessly panned and captured images. To keep himself awake, Steve wrote a simple script to stitch together the 1600 images, taking into account planetary rotation. When this was done, he set a breakpoint in StevieNix to pause it when the sim planet reached the same position as their own. This took six months in sim time, but only a few seconds in real life. He then took the exact same images in sim and stitched them together, thus giving himself a baseline for comparison.

At 4am, the last frame came in from the university telescope. Hurriedly, he ran his stitching script, overlaid the stitched image on top of the one he'd generated from StevieNix, and ran an image diff. After a few attempts, the results were conclusive. He roused Gabe.

"Seventeen."

"Seventeen?"

"Seventeen stars, all contained within a thirty-three by twenty-six degree bounding box."

Gabe rubbed his eyes. "This is comparing against the StevieNix sky, right?"

Steve nodded. "I have no idea where to find the source data, so this was the fastest way."

Gabe rolled out of bed. "We can't be sure untill we've compared it to an actual scan. No offence, but half those stars could be easter eggs or wedding proposal gimmicks or whatever."

Finding an actual scan of the night sky was harder than it should have been for a professor of astronomy, but Gabe had already made some progress on this front in his frenetic panic earlier. It wasn't long before an appropriate image had been located, rotated, and cropped to fit the same area. They ran the image diff.

Seventeen stars were missing.

The two exhausted friends leaned back in their chairs and alternated between staring dumbly at the screens, and at each other.

Eventually, it was Gabe's turn to break the silence.

"What now?"

Finally, a question Steve could answer. "Coffee. And breakfast. Let's go."

--

Although the journal editor could plainly see the vast and terrifying implications of their paper, "Observational Anomalies: The Sudden Extinction of Seventeen Proximate Stars", there was still a process to be respected. The average paper went through nine rounds of peer review prior to being accepted for publication, during which time any and all originality was carefully sifted out, lest the paper interfere with another academic's sinecure. Following a frank behind-closed-doors discussion with the editor, Gabe and Steve uploaded their paper to a preprint server and alerted the press through various backchannels (mostly by tagging science journalists on social media).

--

Through the tireless work of the Astrology community, a sizable fraction of the general public was already aware of at least some of the darkenings. Of those people, most were vaguely skeptical of the idea that this was a routine event - little cause for alarm, outside of astrological considerations - but had assumed that if there was anything to worry about, the government would take care of it.

The prevailing sentiment inside the government was that, while the star darkenings were unusual, it was not their problem. As government employees, they were accountable to - at most - widespread public outrage (and usually not even that). In the absence of any immediate threat to their livelihoods, all individual government employees were happy to leave the star darkening question to the astrologers and the scientific community - who, up until the publication of Observational Anomalies, hadn't the foggiest idea that this was going on at all.

Thus, public unease continued to stack up, like dry tinder, until the popular science articles discussing Observational Anomalies took a match to it.

--

A hundred thousand year planetary peace doesn't arise without cause. A significant contributing factor was the Federal Department of Social Emotional Calibration. The FDSEC's stated goal was the eradication of all anti-social personality traits, chief among which were aggression and ambition. This was accomplished through various means, including by exerting influence over the embryonic selection process, re-education of people exhibiting anti-social traits, and - in the extreme - execution.

Suffice it to say, the minority of the public who reacted with hostility to the news of the likelihood of an advanced star-extinguishing alien race in their neighboorhood, kept it to themselves. The unburned centuries' worth of unease on the star-darkening question conflagrated in an extreme, public flame of rapturous excitement.
