# 50. Old Testament Diplomacy

"Should we just kill him?" asked one of the younger pacifists.

Filbert had been tied up and marched back to the village square, where the pacifists were debating what to do with him.

"There's a lot to be said for killing him," argued one man. "He's clearly a menace to society. If we prevent him from doing any more harm, net peace in the world will increase."

"That's the same argument people made for every heinous act in history!" objected another. "'Ooh, but it's for the greater good!'"

"Yes!" approved Filbert. "Someone with some sense! Listen to this guy, please!" 

"Clearly," the man continued, "we should just make him someone else's problem. Let's season him up and sell him to the Anarcho-Cannibalists."

The idea was met with broad approval. Filbert regretted opening his mouth.

As the pacifists squabbled over the most enticing way to season him (there was large support for a honey-based marinade, but a sizeable contingent held that honey collection was a type of violence), Filbert watched their leader, standing back and fiddling with his newly-acquired railgun. There were six rounds left in the magazine. If the guy switched the gun to automatic mode and depressed the main trigger, all six rounds would be gone in less than a second. Then, even if Filbert managed to escape his present predicament and reacquire his gun, he'd still be utterly screwed.

Fortunately, fate turned. As a passionate argument for the moral superiority of salt and vinegar was made in the background, the leader's leg exploded. Filbert was sure he saw the life leave his eyes before his body crumpled and hit the ground. He knew of only one thing that could cause that kind of instant death from a leg wound - hydrostatic shock from a railgun projectile.

As the pacifists screamed and fled the square, Filbert stood up and began waddling towards his railgun, which was trapped under the corpse. Before he could reach it, a loud squak filled the air. He looked up and saw Cosmo, approaching for landing.

The enormous winged dinosaur landed gracefully in the square, and Stacy II jumped off, holding her railgun. "Woo!" she cheered. "Did you see that shot?"

"You shot him from the air?" asked Filbert, incredulously.

"Heck yeah I did!" she responded, punching the air. "Best shot ever!"

"You could have accidentally shot me!"

"You would have deserved it!" she fired back. "What use are you? I can't even leave you in charge of a bunch of pacifists without you getting captured!"

Filbert's face turned red. "They're not real pacifists," he tried to explain. "You understand they're all either criminals or descended from criminals, right?"

"Yeah, yeah, yeah," dismissed Stacy II as she set about untying him. "All I hear is excuses. You're lucky Steve contacted me. Apparently these guys were going to sell you to the Anarcho-Cannibalists."

Filbert suddenly realized whose voice had been in his head, trying to warn him. It had been Steve.

"How's the war going?" asked Filbert, changing the subject.

"Not bad. I left Blake in change. Would be easier if we had bows and arrows," she added, glaring.

"You try motivating these people to build weapons!" Filbert replied.

She did. Over the next two days, Stacy II instructed Filbert in her more direct management style. Key Performance Indicators were to be measured. Anyone who didn't meet their Objectives and Key Results was to be shot - _pour encourager les autres_.

In short order, Stacy II's military industrial complex was cranking out eighty bows and almost a thousand arrows per day.

******

When not conquering villages, Stacy II spent her time on religious instruction. Born and raised in the Theocratic Dominion, Stacy II was a strong believer in the integration of church and state. Although she hadn't brought a copy of the holy book, she knew many of the more important passages by heart. She set about creating a clergy, drafting sermons, and instructing her followers in the Gospel according to Russell.

Mostly, however, she spent her time conquering villages.

The more villages Stacy II conquered, the easier future conquest became. As her forces grew, she was able to adopt "Deuteronomy 20 diplomacy": Upon selection of a target village, a friendly ambassador would be dispatched to give a villagers a choice. They could either surrender and pledge loyalty to Stacy II, or see their village razed to the ground before being slaughtered to the last man. To the dismay of her adherents and widely muttered accusations of heresy, she forbade the mass rape of the female villagers - not that it made a difference though, as not a single village chose the latter option.

Without firing any more railgun projectiles, Stacy II soon controlled all of New Australia, save two hold-outs: The Anarcho-Cannibalists, and the House of Lords.

She chose to attack the House of Lords. 

The House of Lords was prepared. The city had been designed according to classic motte-and-bailey principles. As the hyperloop station was conveniently situated on a hill, it formed the center of the motte - a small, raised, easily defensible area. The land surrounding the motte had been cleared and encircled by a long ditch and pikes. It formed the bailey - a large, expansive area, suitable for living and growing food, but difficult to defend. If Stacy II attacked, the House would first defend the bailey. If they lost that, they could fall back to the motte and rain arrows down upon Stacy II's forces until they gave up. At that point, they could easily retake the bailey.

Upon receiving news of Stacy II's brazenly obvious threat, the gang deployed its abundant slave labour to improve the city's fortifications. Thousands of sticks were sharpened and added to the collection of pikes surrounding the bailey. A wooden wall was built around the motte, with defensive platforms and towers. They were ready.

Stacy II had a choice to make: To attack the city, or to besiege it. A siege would cost an indefinite amount of time, but an attack would cost an indefinite number of men. Stacy II decided on the siege. After all, the purpose of her campaign was not simply to gain territory, but to convert heathens and raise an army. The mass casualties incurred by a direct attack on the motte-and-bailey would make this harder than it needed to be.

It didn't take long for the siege to start paying dividends. The House of Lords had yet to master the art of food preservation, and relied mostly on fresh meat and dairy for sustenance. Unfortunately, the bailey was nowhere near large enough to graze the necessary animals. Cut off from the pastures beyond the ditch, the cityfolk soon found themselves slaughtering and eating the animals usually reserved for milk. This obviously precipitated a drop in dairy production, necessitating more animals be slaughtered to make up the shortfall in food. Before long, the entire herd had been eaten and the House of Lords leadership was starting to look nervously at the mass of taxed human capital stored in the city.

They were faced with three options: Free the tax revenue, eat the tax revenue, or contend with a tax revenue revolt. Given that an attempt to implement the second option had a high probability of leading to the third, the House of Lords chose the first. 

The gates to the bailey opened up and thousands of slaves - mostly children - poured out.

Stacy II welcomed them with open arms. A huge effort was launched to reunify the freed taxes with their families. As most of them had been taken when they were too young to remember, there was some guesswork involved. Still, Stacy II chose to believe that the matches were mostly made accurately. At least, the people acted that way.

Freeing the tax revenue allowed the House of Lords to stretch their food supply longer, but hunger eventually set in. Stacy II adopted a new tactic: She had her archers fire arrows into the bailey, to which they attached morsels of food and notes exhorting the recipients to defect.

Slowly, the enemy forces began deserting. Soon, three or four were abandoning their posts every night, sneaking through gaps in the pikes and into the warm hospitality of Stacy II's army. She met with each deserter personally, typically while they were gorging themselves on their first full meal in weeks.

"How many people are left in the city?" she always asked.

Estimates varied wildly, but the trends were clear: The city was bleeding out.

When the defectors' estimates finally reached the consistent two-to-three-dozen range, Stacy II attacked. Her army of thousands stormed the gates at 4am, and sacked the city. Any objects of value were plundered, and the survivors were rounded up. The pikes were cleared from a section of the bailey's fortifications, and all of the holdouts - save one - were placed, tightly bound, in front of the ditch.

Stacy II stood between her forces and the pathetic remnants of the House of Lords, and gave a short sermon. She focused on one of her favourite passages, which included the lines "save alive nothing that breathes" and "devote to them complete destruction".

When she was done, she turned to the one member of the House that she'd reserved - the youngest one. She handed him a wooden club, and stepped back. Under the watchful sights of Filbert's railgun, the young man was made to beat all twenty-eight of his former compatriots to death, one after another, and shove their broken bodies into the ditch.

When he was finally done, the young, bloodsoaked man dropped his club, fell to his knees, and begged Stacy II for forgiveness.

"Sorry kid," she responded. "Nothing that breathes. Complete destruction. Steve has spoken. Who are we to question him?" She turned to Filbert. "Shoot him," she commanded.

Filbert looked at the pathetic, crying young man. He couldn't bring himself to do it.

"No," he responded. "He did everything you asked for."

Stacy II fumed, raised her railgun, and shot the young man herself.

******

The argument between them that night was loud, emotional, and almost entirely devoid of substance. Stacy II felt that, not only had Filbert undermined her in front of her army, but he'd disobeyed the command of Steve. Filbert maintained that Stacy II had become a brutal tyrant, no better than the House of Lords, and certainly worse than whatever democratic government was currently being installed in the former Theocratic Dominion. Stacy II accused Filbert of being a feckless twat, and Filbert responded by saddling up Cosmo and flying away.

When she got up the next morning, things immediately felt different. Archibald, who had taken to bringing her bacon and eggs for breakfast, was nowhere to be seen. Blake, who usually reported first thing in the morning, had similarly vanished.

When she left her hut in search of her assistants and advisors, none could be found. It was as if her entire administration had disappeared overnight.

There were still people around, but none she knew by name. When she tried to interact with them, they avoided eye contact and shuffled out of sight as quickly as possible. By and large, she was completely ignored.

As the day progressed and the people got bolder, they started to make fun of her. Quotes from her sermons were mangled and mocked. A boy offered her a piece of fruit, and "accidentally" dropped it when she tried to receive it. A few of the men made crude jokes, which gradually devolved into unsophisticated, lecherous advances.

Stacy II soon came to realize how much of her power hinged on a single factor - consensus. The common people only obeyed her orders because her administration did - and her orders included one to shoot anyone who didn't obey. No administrator would defect as long as the consensus held, lest they be shot by the others.

Then, Filbert had publicly refused an order from Stacy II and lived to tell the tale. Whispers spread like wildfire throughout New Australia - if her most trusted lieutenant didn't have to follow her commands, why should anyone else? If he could just leave, why couldn't they?

The empress, it turned out, had been naked this entire time.

For the first time since Filbert had shot her would-be strangler on the beach, Stacy II felt vulnerable. While some people no doubt adored her for reuniting them with their children, they were keeping that adoration to themselves. Meanwhile, there was scarcely a village on the island without someone she'd personally angered. Stacy II suddenly realized the downside of freeing the slaves: She had deprived the people of their access to "public property", and was completely unprepared to deal with the rapidly overheating nuclear reactor of sexual energy coarsing through the arteries of the violent, lustful men she wished to rule. 

Soberly assessing the situation, Stacy II realized that there was one thing keeping her from being torn apart by the mob: Her railgun, which could be easily taken from her, and contained only eight rounds.

As the sun began to set and the lecherous advances turned to jeers and catcalls, Stacy II hastily packed some rations, threw a hood over her face, and set out on foot for the one village she hadn't pissed off - the Anarcho-Cannibalists.
