# 51

The funeral was well-attended. While Vincent had never attempted to gain or exercise any sort of authority, he had still managed to achieve an almost religious status among residents of the Anarchy. Their family homestead was overwhelmed for weeks, by well-wishers who commuted thousands of kilometers to pay their respects to the man who'd started it all.

Xavier was relieved that no one seemed to blame him for his father's death, even though it happened on his ship, under his command.

"Your dad didn't take commands," one guest said simply.

"It's how he would have wanted to go - fighting the damned statists," said another.

"Don't worry; he's with Steve now," was the most common consolation.

Xavier kept the pudgy statist with the nasal voice as a prisoner of war in one of the Terrarium's stables. His name was Sullivan. Xavier hated him.

"Why did you do it?" he asked Sullivan one day. "We were already going to fix the sewage system for you."

Sullivan sighed, as if to say "here we go again."

"It's not about the sewage systems," he explained condescendingly. "It's about equity."

Xavier grumbled. He'd heard this part before.

"Why should you be the only one with the power to make anything? What have you actually done to deserve it?"

"I built the ASIC," Xavier responded.

"Yeah sure, but why was it you who built it and not some kid living in a PR slum?"

Xavier was silent.

"Your privilege," Sullivan pointed out.

Xavier grimaced. He hated that word.

"That's all there is to it," Sullivan continued. "You think you're brilliant, and you deserve all this," he gestured at the inside of the stable, "but you're not, and you don't. You just have it because of your dad. You built the ASIC because your dad assigned it as homework, and he gave you access to some super secret computer that he and his buddies found. That's it, the entire story of your success. An accident of birth, nothing more."

Xavier fumed. He thought of counter-examples - Filbert had been born in a similar position and had accomplished nothing - but Filbert was dumber than him, less driven, and more conventional in his thought. Were his intelligence, motivation and creativity also mere "accidents of birth"? What about him was not?

"Do you know why I made the ASIC?" he asked.

"No," Sullivan responded. "I assumed you did it to impress a girl."

"I did it to democratize access to nanoscale manufacturing."

Sullivan snorted. "Sure you did, kiddo. Where is it, then?"

Xavier left the stable without responding. Sullivan had touched a nerve. Truth be told, he'd been mentally skirting around his original goal for months. Looking back at his idea now, it seemed so naive that he almost couldn't believe he'd thought it. As if democratizing access to nanoscale manufacturing would lead only to a free market for islands and other positive effects, when there were people like Sullivan in the world. The thought of the horrors Sullivan could manifest creeped him to the core.

It hadn't escaped his notice that their recapture of the Terrarium was made possible by a single factor: Technological superiority. It was this that had allowed the anarchists to build the weapons, escape the lab, and distribute their forces. Without it, they would have been stuck in the lab, and eventually overwhelmed when the statists received reinforcements.

Xavier had no hope that the anarchists could ever outnumber the statists. The relative population sizes of the PR and the Anarchy made this starkly clear - when given a choice between earning one's own place in the world and living large on ill-gotten gains appropriated by a faceless machine of violent coercion, almost everyone chose the latter. And why wouldn't they? When there's a gang out there, robbing Peter to pay Paul, it takes a special kind of person to choose to be Peter regardless. Those were Xavier's people.

His people needed to level the playing field, and for the first time in history, they could. In fact, they could do a great deal more than that.

They could sink the PR into the sea. They could nuke every capital city on the planet. They could fill the world with billions of eavesdropping assassin-drones, ready to deliver a stroke to anyone who ever mentioned "income redistribution". They could become as evil as the statists themselves.

Or, they could leave. Leave before the statists fully realized what he had. Leave while they still could - for if a state ever got ahold of the terrifying power of the ASIC, no threat to their dominance would ever be allowed to emerge again. It would be well and truly over.

Xavier looked up to the sky. Surface-to-air missiles could reach altitudes of 45km - twice as high as the Terrarium. Inter-Continental Ballistic Missiles could fly even higher. Floating up into the stratosphere wasn't enough - they needed to go to space.

******

Getting to space was hard. In the interim, Antarctica sufficed. Beneath the Transarctic Mountains, lay an abundant trove of carbon - in the form of pristene coal deposits. Mining of this coal was prohibited by the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty, but Xavier didn't remember signing it. If anyone objected, he reasoned, they were welcome to come to the frozen wasteland and plead their case.

Xavier located a coal seam in a mountain, docked the Terrarium above it, and got to work. The first order of business was to terraform the adjacent valley, which turned out to be relatively easy. He programmed the ASIC to encase the valley in an enormous dome, made of the same glassy carbon as the Terrarium walls. He then deployed an army of robots, armed with drills and fusion-powered heaters, to melt the ice and warm the ground. His crew, by now experts in transforming barren landscapes into lush rainforests, took over from there. Within a few weeks, the valley was lush with turf and mature fruit trees, transplanted from the great nurseries and arboretums of the Anarchy.

Thousands of Xavier's people voluntarily relocated to the valley. The Anarchy was abuzz with a level of excitement unseen since its founding. Xavier was grateful for their help - without access to the MHI-10, the necessary advances in technology would have to be achieved with raw human intelligence and relentless experimentation.

At first, Xavier refused to build another ASIC. Paranoid of statist infiltration, he personally reviewed each and every CAD design before it was printed. Before long, he was spending twenty hours per day staring at his monitor, and still found himself unable to keep up with the experiments that his people wanted to run. Eventually, he relented, manufactured two more ASICs, and placed each under the care of a man whom he'd fought alongside in the Battle of the Terrarium.

After some weeks, the ceaseless experimentation bore fruit. By punching a miniscule nozzle in the magnetic shielding that confined the hydrogen of a fusion reactor, a group of reckless maniacs was able to create a fusion rocket. It was powerful enough to accelerate a thousand kilograms of material to escape velocity while consuming less than twenty kilograms of hydrogen. The only major downside was the many-kilometers-long death ray of high-energy particles and gamma rays that emanated from the rocket's tail. Not wishing to irradiate their polar settlement, the amateur rocket scientists floated the test vehicle up high on a balloon before igniting the engine and watching it rapidly accelerate out of the atmosphere, followed presumably by the planet's gravity well, and the solar system. It ultimately would have left the galaxy altogether, had interstellar space actually existed - in reality, the fusion engine disappeared as soon as it hit the bounding box surrounding the solar system.

They built hundreds of fusion rockets. When launch day came, balloons were attached and the rockets were floated up into the stratosphere, one after another, over the course of twenty-four hours. Once all the rockets were in the air, they were each briefly ignited, propelling the rockets into an evenly spaced orbit a couple hundred kilometers above the planet's surface, in line with the plane of the solar system. Then, they started fabricating the chains.

The payload of each rocket was a nano-fabrication suite that extruded a chain of colossal carbon tubes, impregnated with magnetite. Over the next few days, each miniature factory constructed a hundred kilometers of chain. Once they were done, an active controller on the tail of each chain coordinated with the rocket on the head of the next, each manoeuvering and mating until every section of chain was welded to its neighbours, like an enormous ouroboros encircling the planet, spinning at eight kilometers per second.

Once the orbital ring was fully connected, a magnetically levitating shuttle was attached to it, with a tether that reached all the way back down to the stratosphere.

Xavier was confident enough in the sling-on-a-ring design that he performed the first manned launch. His vehicle resembled a single-seat fighter jet with a fusion rocket on the back. While he could have simply ignited the engine and flown it to space, he already felt guilty enough about the radiation they'd dumped into the atmosphere in the past few days. The ring, albeit slower than the rocket, was cleaner, comfier, and cooler.

Xavier and his crew built an enormous horseshoe-shaped vacuum balloon, with the launch vehicle suspended nose-out in the middle. Xavier released the ballast and floated into the sky - forty kilometers above the earth's surface. A hundred and sixty kilometers above him, the shuttle activated its pulsing magnetic field and started accelerating against the rotation of the ring - and thus, slowing down relative to the balloon.

As the shuttle approached eight kilometers per second against the orbit of the ring, it released the tether. The hundred and sixty kilometers-long carbon rope spiraled down through the atmosphere, guided towards the horseshoe by an active control system. Just as the shuttle reached its final velocity and stood still relative to Xavier, the tether reached the horseshoe.

No sooner than the tether grabbed hold of the space-jet's nose, did the shuttle start moving again in the other direction. It gently braked itself against the rotating magnetic field of the orbital ring, and thus began its acceleration relative to the planet. Xavier felt himself fall backwards as the space-jet, dangling from its nose, was dragged up and out of the horseshoe by the taughtening rope.

 The shuttle braked harder and harder against the orbital ring, which accelerated Xavier's plane faster and faster through the atmosphere. Xavier experienced a constant - yet tolerable - 1.5g as the centrifugal force slowly lifted the plane out of the atmosphere and towards the orbital ring.

The shuttle didn't stop when it finally matched the speed of the ring. It flipped the magnetic field and started accelerating again, this time in the same direction as the ring. The centrifugal force pulled Xavier beyond the ring until he was dangling upside-down, pointing back to Earth, ready to be released towards any target in the solar system.

The sling released him at 16 kilometers per second, in the direction of Jupiter. Xavier immediately felt his weight disappear, and though he was traveling many times faster than he'd ever experienced on Earth, it still felt slow. The Earth continued to dominate his visual field as he floated away from it, traveling well in excess of escape velocity but still a snail's pace relative to the size of space. As Xavier floated against his flight harness, he did some mental math. At his current velocity, he should reach Jupiter in around a year and a half.

A fun prospect, but he had work to do on Earth. Plus, his space-jet was totally unequipped to keep him alive that long. He didn't even have a toilet. 

With a reluctant sigh, he fired up the fusion rocket and opened the throttle to 1g. Comfy. It felt exactly like lying on the floor.

With a twitch of the joystick, Xavier immediately discovered that, while straight-line acceleration had been dialed in perfectly, the space-jet's yaw/pitch/roll control needed work. His slightest control input sent the craft spinning and tumbling chaotically through space, like a rapidly deflating balloon. He tried for a few seconds to right the craft while being pummeled against his harness by the force of the fusion rocket alternately accelerating with, then against his body's momentum, before giving up and closing the throttle.

Xavier had fallen into the habit of educatedly-guessing PID gains and relying on the atmosphere to dampen out any imprecision. This, it turned out, was what his dad would have called "Fisher-Price engineering". Out here in space, he actually had to get his math right.

The spinning universe was making him nauseous. He clamped his eyes shut to block out the visual chaos, the evolutionary cues to his brainstem that he'd eaten something highly hallucinogenic and had a choice between vomiting it out or dying from poison. As he weightlessly tumbled away from his planet and into the cold depths of space, he desperately tried to remember how to solve differential equations before the call of nature forced him to fill his tiny living space with vomit or excrement.
