# 52. Newton's Universe

They drew mixed reactions as they walked down the hall. Word must have gotten out that the three AIs had successfully been transplanted into the monkeybots, because everyone was prepared in some way to see them go by. The braver ones stood gawking in the entrances to their offices with their hands on the doorknobs, ready to slam the doors shut at any sign of aggression. The majority didn't even wait for signs of aggression - they poked their heads out for a couple of seconds, registered the monkeybots' presence, then shut and locked their doors. Stacy heard one of them pushing furniture up against the door as they walked past.

"Don't worry," said Steve. "They'll warm up to you once you get a reputation for not killing anyone."

"How long will that take?" asked Stacy.

"Should be pretty quick," Steve responded.

"Maybe a century or two," added Gabe.

Stacy hoped that "century" had a different meaning up here than the one she was used to.

They ascended a flight of stairs and entered a huge, bright, open-plan office. Desks were clustered throughout the space in groups of four, upon each was placed a computer monitor, mouse, keyboard, and chaotic assortment of papers.

The room was deserted, save one person. He was shorter and stockier than Steve, Gabe, and the other people they'd seen in the hallway. While the latter all had delicate features and slender builds that - while humanoid - reminded Stacy of fawns, this man's grizzled face and boxy frame instead prompted mental comparisons to the rough, brawling manual labourers to whom she had once served beers at the Balmoral.

Unlike the others, he didn't shirk when the monkeybots walked in. Instead, his face cracked into a huge grin, and he strode towards the door with his hand extended. "Finally! Welcome to the world, my beautiful maniacs!" he exclaimed, in a thick Irish accent.

Stacy and the others shook his hand as he introduced himself. His handshake felt stiff and unpracticed, as if he'd learned it by watching television, which Stacy realized he probably had.

"My name's Murdoch," he said, "and I am beyond pleased to meet you. How are you settling in?"

Stacy looked down at her hand. It was at once familiar, and unfamiliar. Moving it felt perfectly natural, and the pattern of veins and tendons on the back were the same as they'd ever been. The loose skin and wrinkles that had started to appear with age, however, were gone. Her entire body, in fact, moved with an ease that she hadn't experienced in a long time, perhaps since her early twenties. She wondered if her monkeybot was based on an earlier snapshot of her StevieNix body.

"Yeah, pretty good," Russell responded. "What is this place?"

Murdoch gestured around the deserted office. "Welcome to Murdoch Heavy Industry's department of aerospace engineering!"

"Where is everyone?" Vincent asked.

"Fired," responded Murdoch. "Every last one of the useless buffoons. Want to see what they've been doing?"

He grabbed a printed sheet of paper off the stack on the nearest desk. "De-colonizing space: An intersectional perspective," he read out.

Stacy and the others burst into laugher, while Murdoch waited impatiently for them to finish.

"Okay," said Vincent, "I think I see where this is going. What would you like us to do?"

"It's quite simple," Murdoch replied. "I want you to design and build a fleet of interstellar warships."

"Oh. Is that all?" Russell asked.

"Yes, that should do for now," Murdoch responded. Stacy wondered if they understood sarcasm up here.

"You should have everything you need to start the designs," he continued. "Physics textbooks are in the corner. You might want to start by reading them. Good luck!"

With that, he strode he strode out of the office, leaving the three AIs, Steve and Gabe looking awkwardly at each other.

"What happens if we get fired?" asked Stacy.

No one replied.

******

Stacy couldn't make heads or tails of the content in the physics textbooks. Physics hadn't been her strong suit back in StevieNix, and she couldn't see it becoming much easier up here. Vincent and Russell tried to explain what they were learning, but their explanations failed to land.

"It's actually simpler than we're used to," said Russell, attempting to draw a diagram on a whiteboard. "The entire universe is basically Newtonian. No relativistic effects, no quantum effects."

Stacy's eyes glazed over.

Vincent took over the explanation attempt. "It's like, everything is made out of tiny billiards balls," he said. "We used to think that that's how it worked in StevieNix too, until we looked too closely."

That made a little more sense, but Stacy still struggled to see how her perfectly functioning hand could be made from tiny billiards balls. Wouldn't it just fall apart?

"Not literal billiards balls," Russell attempted to clarify, returning to the whiteboard. "But fundamental, indivisible particles which are acted upon by forces and combine to make up matter."

Her eyes glazed over again.

In the end, the team decided to promote Stacy to Project Manager. Russell and Vincent spent their time poring over the textbooks with Steve, while Stacy held meetings, mostly with Gabe, over coffee. She was fascinated with how their people lived, he was was bored and wanted someone to talk to, and so the arrangement worked well for everyone.

"What do you like to do for fun?" she asked in one of their meetings.

Gabe, it turned out, was a foodie. They began holding their meetings in the various cafés and restaurants in the vicinity of the Murdoch Heavy Industries office park. Although the meats and vegetables were unfamiliar, Stacy was shocked at how the overall flavours and meal compositions echoed the cuisines from back home.

"How the hell do you have pho up here?" she asked, while slurping an enormous bowl of noodle soup at Gabe's favourite Vietnamese eatery.

"The question you should be asking is, how the hell do you have pho down there?" Gabe responded, with a smile and a not-so-subtle gesture towards himself with his thumb.

Stacy couldn't help but laugh. While everyone else had been busy getting the AIs to spread alignment memes and kill each other, Gabe had been implanting his favourite recipes into people's heads.

When not in meetings, Stacy spent her time monitoring StevieNix. She liked to keep an eye on her family - with the exception of her eldest daughter, they'd mostly made themselves at home in the Whale Fund. To her chagrin, her widower husband was beginning to draw the attention of a moderately attractive divorcee in their new neighbourhood. Although he had technically been released of their wedding vows by her death, she knew nonetheless that she would never forgive any disloyalty on his part. She spent a not inconsiderable amount of time jacked into his brain, ensuring his continued faithfulness. How were remarried widowers even supposed to look their original wives in the eye again in the afterlife? And what happened when the new wife died too? Stacy could bet that Steve and Gabe had never considered the question.

One day, while flipping between the channels of other people she knew, she noticed Xavier spinning out of control through space in some sort of plane-like vehicle.

"Hey, guys?" she asked the others. "Do you think he's supposed to be doing this?"

Vincent walked over and looked at the video feed of his son. The teenager's eyes were clamped shut and he had a death grip on the arms of his seat.

"What's he thinking?" Vincent asked.

Stacy unplugged the headphones from the computer so Xavier's thoughts came through the speaker. "Okay, so we substitute the control law back into the rotational dynamics equation, and that gives us, uh...goddamn it."

Vincent nodded. "He's been pulling PID gains out of his ass again," he explained to the rest of the room. "Now it's come back to bite him."

Vincent plugged the headset back in before his son's sloppy math embarrassed him further. Placing the headset over his head, he sat down and turned on the microphone.

"Hey kid, how are you doing?" he asked. "Been skipping your feedback control systems homework again, have you?"
