# 53. Farmer Jack

Filbert had no idea where he was going. He clutched his reins and tucked in close to Cosmo for warmth. The dinosaur's powerful wings were carrying him north, but the warmer temperatures of the increasingly equatorial latitudes were insufficient to offset the freezing cold of the deepening night. He had no idea how the Anarchists travelled like this.

Eventually, he could tell that Cosmo was getting tired. The ketzel spent less time flapping and more time gliding, leading to a slow and steady decrease in altitude until the pair were just above the empty, inky blackness of the Pacific Ocean. The horizon narrowed as they descended. Filbert prayed that Cosmo had some idea where he was going, because all he could see was the moon reflected on the endless expanse of cold, unforgiving water.

Cosmo abruptly squawked and changed course. Filbert stared into the distance, trying to make out what the ketzel had seen. He couldn't see anything until they were almost directly on top of it - an island, adorned with a small house and a collection of outbuildings. Life! As they passed over the shore of the island, he noticed a sharp, precise corner underneath him that looked to be about 120 degrees - the corner of a hexagon.

Filbert gulped. This was his first time in the Anarchy.

Cosmo landed in front of the sheds with the elegance of a train derailing. By deftly dismounting in the nick of time, Filbert managed to get away with only a twisted ankle, a scraped hand, and a minor lump on his head. Cosmo got up, shook himself off, and ventured in search of food and drink. Not wanting to get shot for trespassing, Filbert spent the night in the stable, next to a snoring herd of protops.

A kick in the shins jolted him awake. "Wake up!" shouted a gruff voice.

Filbert opened his eyes in terror. A large, threatening man, twenty or so years his senior, was standing by his feet, pointing a railgun at his face. He looked around for his own railgun, and couldn't see it.

"Don't you dare move," growled the man.

"Not even to raise my hands?" asked Filbert.

"Okay, you can raise your hands. But any funny business, and you get shot."

Filbert gulped and raised his hands.

"Now, who are you and what are you doing in my stable?" asked the man.

Filbert explained who he was, and recounted the events of the past few months. Before long, the man had set down his railgun and sat down on a bale of hay, listening with rapt attention to the tales of Stacy II's conquest.

"She sounds mental," he commented when Filbert's story had drawn to a close. "Completely unhinged. I can understand why you left, even if it does, you know."

"I know what?" asked Filbert.

"Doom her to being raped and eaten by the thousands of people she pissed off," the man explained.

Filbert looked down at the ground, embarrassed. She shouldn't have called him a feckless twat.

"You still haven't told me what you're doing in my shed," the man reminded him.

Filbert explained that his ketzel had gotten tired and crash-landed on this spot. The man nodded, understandingly. It must not be an uncommon occurance, Filbert reasoned.

"I'm just trying to get home to the People's Republic," he pleaded. "Can you help me?"

The man laughed. To the PR? You didn't have internet access in New Australia, did you?

"No," Filbert replied. "Why?"

The man chuckled and brought out his phone. "Here," he said, passing the phone to Filbert. "Have a look."

He slipped back to the house while Filbert doomscrolled his social media feed, viewing picture after picture of squalor and poverty where the one-proud People's Republic had stood as a beacon to the democratic world. The man returned with two mugs of coffee and passed one over to Filbert.

"I've just spoken with my wife," he announced, "and she'd love for you to stay with us for a bit. We could use some extra help around the farm."

Filbert looked up. Becoming an Anarchist's farmhand wasn't what he'd had in mind when he'd fled New Australia, but it beat a miserable struggle for survival in a stinking PR slum. Plus, he was pretty sure he owed him for whatever food Cosmo had managed to scavenge last night.

"I have only three rules," the man continued. "One: If I ask you for something, you get it done. On time, high quality, no excuses. Two: Dinner is at six. Everyone eats together. Three: If you touch one of my daughters, I'll cut your hand off."

Seemed easy enough. "Deal," Filbert replied, and stuck his hand out.

The man grabbed his hand and pulled him out of the straw lining the floor of the stable. "My name's Jack," he said. "Now let's get you to work."

******

Filbert soon realized why Jack had been so adamant about his daughter-protection policy. His wife, Erica, had some sort of exotic origin - The Phillippines, perhaps? Whatever it was, the fusion of her genes with Jack's had produced numerous incalculably beautiful offspring, the eldest of which was a girl not much younger than Filbert, who looked like she'd be better placed modelling for cosmetic dentists than hauling hay on an artificial island. She seemed to delight in the challenge of getting Filbert's hand severed, and as he tried his best to block out her relentless, wicked flirtations, he began to wonder if she'd been sculpted and delivered by Steve himself in order to torment him.

Jack farmed eggs. Filbert learned that he'd only started his operation recently - after the crisis in the PR sent egg prices into orbit. Jack had moved quickly, leasing a flock of protops and turning them loose on his floating homestead. The high margins had allowed him to finance additional land, eventually resulting in the hundred acres of lush, protops-covered pastures that Filbert found himself tending.

His primary task was egg collection. Protops were territorial, and didn't like to lay eggs in each others' vicinity. As a result, Filbert found himself spending his days mounted on a runner, traveling from nest to nest, collecting the football-sized eggs into a specially-designed saddle. Occasionally, a protops would go "broody" and try to incubate and defend its egg, and Filbert would have to scare it off with the runner. The most annoying aspect of his daily routine (other than avoiding the advances of the fiendish daughter) was when protops decided to lay their eggs not in the nests that Jack had built and mapped, but somewhere new. Then, Filbert would have to spend ages - sometimes up to an hour - scrabbling through the undergrowth, hunting for the eggs.

As the months passed, Filbert gradually felt more fulfilled than he ever had before in his life. Although he worked twelve hour days - dawn to dinner, seven days a week - he enjoyed the work and took pride in doing it well. He could sense Jack and Erica's gratitude - Jack had clearly overextended himself by expanding to the hundred acres, and without Filbert diligently exploring and mapping the protops' preferred nesting locations, his yields would have been substantially reduced. Filbert would have happily spent the rest of his days as Jack's farmhand, particularly if the farmer relaxed his policy regarding his eldest daughter.

One day, as he was doing his rounds, he caught sight of a ship in the distance. He mostly ignored it, until it had approached close enough for him to make out the shape. Upon recognizing the ship, he leapt onto his runner and rode to the pier at full speed, arriving at the crest of the final hill just as a uniformed official and his armed escort were descending down the gangplank of the just-arrived PR warship. Jack was already standing at the pier, railgun by his side, ready to welcome the arrivals.

"Who the hell are you?" Jack demanded as the men reached the shore.

The official in the suit smiled and extended his hand, which Jack ignored. The man awkwardly retracted his hand, put it in his pocket, and ignored Jack's question. "Are you the proprietor of Farmer Jack's Pastured Eggs?" he asked.

"What's it to you?" Jack replied.

"I'm Agent Withers with the Department of Commerce," the man said, finally answering Jack's question. "You're under investigation for price gouging."

"Department of what?" Jack asked. "Do you know where you are?"

Agent Withers sighed. "I am at the farm of an unscrupulous individual who thinks it's acceptable to charge four times the market rate for protops eggs in time of crisis."

"That doesn't even make sense!" Jack retorted, clearly offended. "Eggs are a commodity! If I tried to charge more than market rate, people would just buy other eggs!"

"The market rate is fixed at two hundred and fourteen milligrams of gold per egg, as of Department of Commerce regulation 2579 part six."

Jack balked. "Two hundred and fourteen milligrams? That wouldn't even begin to cover my loans! You can shove Department of Commerce regulation two five whatever up your tight little-"

"Sir!" Agent Withers interrupted. "You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law. You have the right to an-"

"Piss off!" Jack shouted. "Get back on your goddamned boat and go drive it into an iceberg! You have no jurisdiction here, pencil neck. This is The Anarchy!"

Agent Withers smiled. "You haven't been reading the news, have you?"

Jack paused, unsure of what to say. Agent Withers, maintaining his forced grin, pulled out his phone and handed it across. Jack looked down at the screen, and up again, confused.

"There is no more Anarchy," Agent Withers said simply. "The people have voted. The Commonwealth of New Sealand is once again united. One nation, under the rule of law, for the good and prosperity of all."

Jack threw the phone into the sea. "Total crap," he snarled. "No one in The Anarchy would ever have voted for that, and even if they did, who cares? This is my land! The only laws here are my laws! I don't care if everybody else in the entire Commonwealth thinks otherwise. Now, piss off! If I have to tell you again, there'll be hell to pay!"

Agent Withers sighed. "A common reaction," he replied. Then, he turned to his guards. "Arrest him," he commanded.

Jack roared, charged Agent Withers to the ground, and sank his teeth into the official's neck. He shook his head side to side like a deranged pitbull with his jaws locked on a small child, while pulling on the agent's hair with one hand and pummelling his kidneys with the other. Agent Withers screamed, and then a shot rang out.

Jack fell off his target and the agent rolled away, and then the air was filled with the sound of automatic gunfire. Filbert watched from his position on the hill as Jack's lifeless body was torn to shreds by hundreds of conventional rounds.

Filbert stood frozen in horror and disbelief as the man who had taken him in, taught him a trade and entrusted him with great responsibilities and the company of his family, was reduced to unrecognizable red blobs spread across the polymerized fullerene beach. Eventually, he unfroze himself, backed away from the crest of the hill, mounted his runner, and sprinted back to the farmhouse.

******

Jack's family had already figured out what had happened by the time Filbert arrived - conventional automatic weapons produce a loud and unmistakable sound signature. Erica was bawling her eyes out, and her eldest daughter was attempting to comfort her. They all looked at Filbert as he arrived - whether for guidance or news, he wasn't sure.

"You all need to leave, right now," he announced.

"Where?" asked the daughter.

Filbert gazed at her perfect face and reflected on the fact that, just a few hours ago, his greatest concern in the world was how to resist her inexorable coquetry lest he slip up and lose his hand. Now, with her chief protector shredded to pieces, there was no more threat to his own bodily integrity. He was finally free to make a move. The coast was clear.

But instead of seeing the mischievous beautiful siren who had tortured him for months, he saw a terrified, vulnerable child, who had just lost the titan shielding her from the horrors of the world.

"Do you have any relatives nearby?" he asked.

Erica sobbed. "My brother. He's about to leave for Antarctica. I begged Jack to go, but he would never leave the farm."

"Can you all make it to his place?" Filbert asked.

Erica nodded. "It's twenty minutes by ketzel."

"Go now. Pack nothing. Hurry!"

They ran to the stables together. Filbert watched as his adopted family saddled up. Erica climbed onto her own ketzel, and the children mounted the remaining flying dinosaursin pairs.

"Are you coming?" asked the daughter, locking her vivid hazel eyes into Filbert's.

"No," he replied. "Get out of here. Get to Antarctica with your uncle. I have something I need to do." Then, addressing the entire family, he said "thank you all for everything. You changed my life, and I'll never forget you."

With a whistle from Erica, the dinosaurs took off and flew together, into the horizon.

Filbert looked at Cosmo. "Just you and me again, mate," he said.

Cosmo cocked his head curiously.

Filbert clipped his saddle onto his borrowed dinosaur, mounted, and took off just as the PR invaders crested the last hill before the farmhouse.
