# 56

Fortunately for Stacy II, induction ceremonies were few and far between.

"We're not savages," Curtis explained. "We only eat tyrants, criminals, and unproductive layabouts. They're all in short supply at the moment, so I'm afraid you may have to wait a while before you're allowed to leave."

"Sure," Stacy II responded awkwardly. "No rush. Where do I sleep in the meantime?"

"There's an empty cottage down the street," Curtis offered. "Feel free to make yourself at home!"

Stacy II settled in to her new home and got to know her neighbours, curious to learn how they made a living. Given the consequences, she was quite wary of being considered a tyrant, criminal or unproductive layabout. On both sides, the households consisted of a nuclear family with a working father, a stay-at-home-mom, and a small horde of children. Both of the fathers did remote work over the internet - one of them did quality assurance for three separate software companies, and the other was a freelance lawyer, specializing in contract drafting and review. The starlink transceivers, they explained, were smuggled in from overseas.

The lawyer gave her the creeps, so she made friends with the QA guy. He graciously lent her his WiFi password, and she set about finding remote work that matched her skillset. This was harder than she'd anticipated, and after failing to gain any traction as a freelance graphic designer, a digital personal assitant and an AI annotator, she got herself certified as a life coach and targeted depressed, single career women in their mid-to-late 30s. This turned out to be quite a profitable niche. Before long, her days were filled with Zoom calls, listening to women complain about their co-workers in exchange for forty thousand satoshis an hour.

As the months rolled by, she began to suspect that the induction ceremony may never arrive - perhaps the cannibalism was just an almost mythical theoretical backstop, similar to how the Governer General could theoretically dismiss the Prime Minister of Australia but had only ever done so once. She relaxed, coming to believe that the day of "eat or be eaten" would never arrive - until, one evening, she was disturbed by a commotion in the streets.

She opened her door and stepped out onto her porch. Dozens of men, women and children, most of whom she now recognized, were marching in the streets, clanging pots and pans.

She spotted her lawyer neighbour in the crowd. "We've got one!" he shouted at her. "Criminal scum!"

Stacy II watched with interest as the charivari worked its way past her house. She still wasn't sure what it was all about, until she spotted someone in the middle of the crowd that she hadn't seen in quite some time. Hands tied behind his back and surrounded by large, rough-looking men, glumly strode Archibald.

"Archibald!" she yelled out. "Archie!"

Archibald recognized her and shouted something in her direction, but she couldn't make it out over the din. She rushed in to the crowd, and marched with the revelers to the village square, where Curtis was seated behind a table.

The men flanking Archibald dragged him in front of Curtis, kicked him in the back of the knees, and allowed him to fall into the dirt. They stepped back, and Curtis spoke.

"A case!" he exclaimed, joyfully. "It's been a while! Who's prosecuting him?"

A man stepped forward out of the crowd. "I am, your honour."

The crowd cheered.

"Very good!" said Curtis. "What are you prosecuting him for?"

"Theft!"

"I see. And do you have any evidence of this crime?" Curtis asked.

"Yeah! I saw him break into my larder and try to steal some bacon!"

Curtis nodded. "Compelling. Thank you."

He turned to Archibald, who was sitting on the ground, hands still tied behind his back. "Do you have anything to say in your defence?" he asked.

"Yeah, plenty!" Archibald responded. "For starters, I never actually stole any bacon, or anything else for that matter! He interrupted me before I could," he explained, pointing his chin at the prosecutor.

"So you admit you intended to steal from this man?" asked Curtis.

"No!" responded Archibald. "I'm just saying, I couldn't even if I wanted to, because he interrupted me. But I didn't want to. Nu-uh."

"So why were you in my larder?" demanded the prosecutor.

"I was lost," replied Archibald.

"Lost, inside my house, uninvited?"

"I had entered into a fugue state." 

"My front door had been kicked in."

"Fugue states are like that sometimes."

"Enough!" yelled Curtis. "Does anyone else have any testimony they'd like to submit?"

Stacy II stepped forward. "I know this boy!" she shouted. "He's a good kid! He wouldn't knowingly break into someone's larder, that's totally out of character."

"You know this boy?" Curtis asked, redundantly.

"Yes!"

"Then your testimony is invalid. Conflict of interest, you see. We can only take testimony from people who don't know him."

"But how are they supposed to-"

"Guilty!" Curtis declared, to a clamour of approval from the crowd. When the shouts and clanging died down, he continued. "I sentence you to death by roasting. It will be carried out tomorrow at sunrise. Construct a spit!" he shouted to the crowd, who cheered.

"In other news, we will have an induction ceremony tomorrow evening!" Curtis continued, to more cheers. "Bring your uninducted!"

Stacy II gulped.

******

She couldn't sleep that night. The thought of eating another human being was already bad enough, but for it to be Archibald made it infinitely worse. Although he had been a constant source of annoyance and frustration during their brief acquaintance, she was still moderately fond of him. The kid certainly didn't deserve to be eaten, regardless of whether or not he'd actually tried to steal someone's bacon. When she regained the throne, she'd ban cannibalism.

When she regained the throne. The thought made her face burn with embarrassment. Wasn't that what she was here for? What she'd set out to do? And now, she was about to eat one of her subjects, so that she could continue to live in comfort whilst offering online friendship-as-a-service to lonely, depressed career women.

"Goddamn it," she grumbled, and rolled over in her bed.

A soft knock at the door disturbed her attempted slumber. She ignored it, and it came again, louder.

"Coming," she groaned, and stumbled to the door. She opened it, and Filbert was standing on her porch.

Her skin ran hot with rage. "You absolute vile piece of-"

"Yeah, yeah, yeah," he responded, shoving her aside and entering her cottage. "Glad to see you're alive too."

"I hate you," she hissed.

"Get over it," he responded. "Right now, I'm your best friend in the world. Unless you feel like eating Baldy and completing your conversion to 'disgusting irredeemable savage.'"

"How do you know about that?" she asked.

"Archibald told me," he replied. "We had a good chat earlier. His guards are asleep."

Suspicious of the timing, Stacy II put two and two together. "Are you the reason he's here?"

Filbert turned slightly red. "I told him to find you, not go about breaking into houses and stealing their cured meats! Anyway, I got a bit concerned when he didn't return."

Stacy II punched him. "Everything was fine! I was never going to have to eat anyone until you came along!"

Attempting to block her blows, Filbert retorted. "You really believe that? No one else would ever come along and try to steal something? You'd be able to live out your days without ever being inducted?"

Stacy II stopped punchind and broke down in tears. "Of course I don't believe that," she cried. "I still hate you though."

"Understandable," Filbert replied, "but try to get over it. I came back, didn't I?"

After Filbert managed to figure out the kettle and make her a cup of tea, Stacy II started to feel better. "So what's your plan?" she asked.

"Easy," Filbert responded. "His guards are asleep. Or, at least, they were half an hour ago. The plan is, we break him out, I fly him back to his village, then come back and get you, and we leave this godforsaken dump forever."

Stacy II nodded. "Good plan. How are you going to break him out?"

"Do you have any bolt cutters?"

She did not.
