# 57. Canary in a Physics Engine

Xavier found himself torn between three projects - space colonization, Antarctic migration, and whatever crazy program his dad was working on. As he had predicted, the statists at the PR had finally shown their true colours and annexed The Anarchy. Their navy was sailing through the vast network of floating islands, taxing residents, enforcing regulations, and brutally crushing what little disorganized dissent the Anarchists were able to muster. People were fleeing en masse.

To handle the huge influx of refugees, he put Theo in charge of Antarctic migration.

"How do I know they're really our people, and not statists in disguise?" Theo asked.

"Maybe see if they have a friend or relative already here, who can vouch for them," Xavier suggested.

"But what if that friend or relative is a statist in disguise?"

Xavier pondered the question for a bit. "Hey Dad!" he thought. "Can you do me a favour?"

A few seconds later, his dad's voice appeared in his head. "Sure, what is it?" he asked. "You're on speaker, by the way. Don't think any impure thoughts! Haha!"

Xavier's mind immediately leapt to how annoying this arrangement was.

"Rein it in," his dad responded. "We all heard that."

"Can you keep an eye on the people entering Antarctica to make sure there aren't any statists sneaking in?" he asked, heroically pushing his train of thought back onto the rails. 

"I'm a bit tied up here, kid."

"Of all people, dad, you should appreciate the danger of statist infiltration!"

"You don't have to remind me why I'm dead, Xavier. Maybe I should remind you who ignored my warning last time?"

"Okay, but surely you don't want the rest of us to die as well?"

"Maybe then I could finally get some work done!" his dad snapped. Then, with a softer tone, he continued - "I understand the concern, but up here, we're basically trying to design a path to nanoscale manufacturing using nothing but rocks and duct tape. And we have deadlines! It's stressful."

"Can someone else check for statists, then? What about Stacy?"

"Hm, that might be okay. She's not doing anything important."

His intrusions went quiet for a moment, before returning.

"Stacy says that Anarchy is 'stupid' and that you should welcome the invasion of someone with more sense than you. Also, she says she's doing extremely important things."

"Great, thanks dad. So can you do it then?"

"Did you know God has a boss? And he's kind of a prick? And he's breathing down my neck asking for a fleet of interstellar warships? How's that space station coming along, hm?"

Xavier sighed and gave up. "We're just going to have to take the risk," he told Theo.

Theo proceeded to turn the Terrarium into a Pacific-to-Antarctica shuttle service, and fund a couple of startups that specialized in "Antarctification" - slicing the surface off the artificial islands, building a dome over them, and transporting the island-platters to Antarctica via vacuum balloon. For the multitudes of homesteaders whose livelihoods were dependent on their islands, this was vastly preferable to starting over again on the icy continent.

Xavier, meanwhile, turned his full attention to colonizing space and preparing to execute the Gods' experiments.

The first order of business was to build a larger ship, capable of housing a small population for long periods of time. He and his crew designed a huge, cylindrical, 12 storey building with a fusion engine on the tail. Each floor was manufactured separately on Earth and flung into space, where they were caught and joined together by volunteers in space-planes.

Once the Building was fully assembled, they flung up one of the two ASICs, filled the building with air, and moved in.

Unlike the Terrarium, the Building wasn't designed to be a self-sufficient colony, but rather a research vessel. Food wasn't grown on board, but was dehydrated and stocked in enormous store-rooms. The air was scrubbed not by plants, but by HEPA filters and an air-recycling plasma reactor. Artificial gravity was achieved not by spinning, but by _going places_ - ie. by running the fusion engine 24/7 and undergoing constant 1g acceleration or deceleration.

It was, on balance, a far less pleasant environment than the floating islands of New Sealand, the Terrarium, or the Antarctic Dome. On the other hand, it was in space. Xavier had no shortage of volunteers.

The top floor was dedicated as the bridge, the bottom floor the engine room, and a few other floors the living quarters. The remaining floors were filled with computers, manufacturing equipment, the ASIC, and lab animals.

******

"Don't run your fusion engine in there," cautioned his dad. "Subatomic physics is totally different. Your engine will probably explode and kill everyone. You're just going to have to coast through on momentum."

"Is momentum the same as here?" Xavier asked the voice in his head. He was clipped into his chair in the top floor of the Building, facing an enormous cube that was outlined with a glowing red grid. Inside the cube, he was told, was empty space and a completely different physics engine.

"Yes, good old p = mv," replied his dad. "Think of it as if Newton designed the universe, and he got some help from the guy who came up with the subatomic fruitcake model. Who was that again? Bohr?"

"Thompson", replied Xavier. "The plum pudding model. You taught me that."

"No, the one where the electrons fly around the nucleus."

"Rutherford?"

"Right, Rutherford."

"His model had nothing to do with fruitcakes."

"I was just testing you. In any case, do NOT run your fusion engine in there. I'm serious. You will die."

"Sure, okay. What about my brain?" Xavier asked. "Does it rely on our subatomic physics?"

"It's been hard to get a straight answer out of Steve on that front," his dad replied. "Hang on, I'll put him on."

A few moments later, Steve's voice appeared. "How are you doing, Xavier?" he asked.

"Great, thanks. Admiring this beautiful red cube you've made me."

"Do you like it? It glows green on the inside!"

"Very nice. If I go inside, will I die?"

Steve was silent for a moment, before replying, "I don't think so."

"You don't think so?"

"You're worried about your brain, right?"

"Right."

"Don't! There's no need to worry about your brain. Your brain is just an interface between your mind and your body."

"What?"

"Your mind doesn't run on your brain. It runs on an MHI-10 in a datacenter, along with a hundred million other minds. If your mind ran on your squishy little monkey brain, how would we ever move it elsewhere?"

"What?"

"Maybe we need to give his mind some extra compute cycles so he can keep up," his dad snickered in the background.

"Ignore him," Steve said. "The point is, don't worry about your brain."

"What should I worry about?"

"Your mitochondria," Steve responded. "I have no idea how those work."

"Great," thought Xavier. "That's reassuring. So why don't you think I'll die if I go in the cube?"

"How much impact could subatomic effects possibly have on your mitochondria? Can't be that much. I'd put the probability of death at no higher than, say, thirty percent."

Xavier didn't feel like personally testing those odds. He was going to have to try something else.

******

"Ready, Ivan?" he asked over the radio.

"Ready to rock!" came the response. Ivan, his first mate, was in one of the lower-floor airlocks with a borrowed lab-canary in a glass sphere and a gigantic slingshot that looked like it belonged in a Loony Tunes cartoon.

"Okay, launch it!" Xavier commanded. He released his harness and floated to the window. Most of the crew was with him, with their faces against the thick glass, craning their necks to try to spot the canary as it left the building.

"Good luck, Tweety Bird!" Ivan replied.

Many floors below, an airlock opened and the glass sphere popped out. "There it is!" someone yelled. Xavier could just make out the tiny yellow canary inside, no doubt struggling to stay perched in zero gravity and wondering why it was flying towards an eerie red grid in the vast emptiness of space.

"It's probably not thinking about the red grid," remarked his dad. "I reckon the whole microgravity thing is enough to fully occupy its tiny little bird brain."

"Speaking of brains, how about you get out of mine?" replied Xavier, annoyed.

"Your mind," his dad corrected him. "Your brain is just an interface-"

"Yeah yeah, okay, my point stands," Xavier interrupted. "Do you really need to talk directly into my mind? Can't you get Steve to commandeer one of the radio channels or something?"

"Is someone tired of his stream of consciousness being blared out into an open-plan office space?"

"I thought you promised not to do that anymore!"

His dad was silent for a few moments, then returned. "Steve says he'll file your request with the other low-priority items. Aren't you meant to be measuring the canary's trajectory or something?"

"No, I figured you would just tell me where to go."

"Right, of course. Why do math when your dad can bail you out?"

Conscious of the office full of people listening to his thoughts, Xavier shifted his attention from brainstorming witty retorts back to the task at hand. The bridge had gone mostly silent as the glass sphere approached the grid. After a few seconds, it met the grid and disappeared, to gasps and scattered applause from the audience.

"Too late," he thought as he made his way back to his chair. "Guess you'll have to give me a flight plan."

His dad grumbled and started reading out vectors for him to punch into the flight computer.

The distance from one side of the cube to the other was very short - far too short for their usual acceleration of 9.8m/s^2. As the ship took off at a fraction of Earth's gravitational acceleration, the crew fumbled to right themselves before awkwardly landing on the floor. Xavier wondered how long it would take before this was second nature.

The flight plan was a parabola that went up one side of the cube, arced over the top, and back down the other. The ship was to constantly accelerate for the first half, flip around at the midpoint, and decelerate the second half. 

"Rotation in ten seconds!" Xavier announced as they approached the midpoint.

The crew scrambled to find handholds. The rotation was the most exciting consequence of using linear acceleration to simulate gravity.

"Rotating now!" Xavier called out.

He gripped his harness, shut his eyes, and felt his stomach churn as the rocket cut out and the sensation of gravity disappeared. Moments later, he felt himself tugged sideways as the Building rotated tail-first. To lessen the motion sickness, the rotation was programmed to take place over a comfortable thirty seconds, but Xavier still wasn't used to it. Finally, the spacecraft settled into its new orientation, the flight computer ignited the rocket, and Xavier opened his eyes as he felt gravity return. The crew smiled and returned to their previous tasks of milling about and chatting, as he looked out at the enormous cube. It was as if the cube, and the entire universe, had flipped upside-down.

"You're almost there," said his dad before long. "I'm pretty sure you're not even going to have to shut off the rocket. The bird should meet the airlock right as your velocity hits 0. Keep the engine going, you'll just start accelerating upwards, and you won't notice a thing."

The flight computer read thirty seconds to destination. "Ivan, are you ready to catch it?" asked Xavier over the radio.

"Yes sir," Ivan responded.

"We're going to try it without stopping, so you should have gravity the whole time. But clip yourself in just in case, okay?"

"Already done," Ivan responded. "Opening the airlock now."

"There it is!" someone yelled, pointing downwards out the window.

Xavier bounded to the window and looked down. Far below them, the sphere had emerged from the cube. He could just make out the tiniest patch of yellow inside.

"Get out of the way," he warned Ivan. "It's coming in hot."

"Yes yes, thank you, I can see it." 

The excited chatter in the bridge died down as the sphere approached the building, and disappeared into the side. A soft _clang_ was heard, and the floor beneath them vibrated ever so slightly.

"Got it!" announced Ivan over the radio.

"Is the bird alive?" Xavier asked.

The radio was silent for several seconds. 

"Ivan! Is the bird alive?" he repeated.

"Hm? Yes, he's alive," Ivan responded. "He's just covered in poop. And very angry."

The bridge broke out in cheers.

Xavier leaned back in his chair and sighed in relief. If the bird's mitochondria survived the trip, his probably would as well. As for his mind, well, that was Steve's problem.

"Take him to the lab," he said. "We'll monitor him for a couple of days. If he seems okay, then it's our turn. Apparently the cube is green inside."
