# 58. Statist Infiltrators

"The boys are all obsessed with their physics project," Stacy II's mom complained into her head. "They've completely forgotten about aligning useful AIs. And everyone in New Sealand is so caught up in this stupid war that they've stopped caring about Steve. Allen's going to start pulling ahead soon."

"Who's Allen?" Stacy II asked.

She and Filbert were sitting in the grass in the cabin of the Terrarium, watching the sea go by. Cosmo was curled up a few meters away, sleeping. Antarctica was too cold to reach by ketzel - fortunately, Stacy II's father and siblings had already made it to the new settlement in the Transarctic Mountains, and had been able to vouch for their safe passage.

"He's one of the other competitors," her mom responded. "He's the one all the camel jockeys with the AK-47s love."

"Right," Stacy II responded. "Isn't that okay? They probably make good warriors."

"No!" her mom snapped. "It's not okay! They're morons. And they suck. And so does Allen."

"Very convincing argument, mom."

"I'm serious! If Murdoch puts those idiots into warships and sends them off to battle, they'll just kamikaze them into the exoplanets and die."

Stacy II laughed. Filbert looked at her, quizzically.

"Talking with my mom," she explained.

He nodded silently and continued looking out at the water.

"So what do you want me to do?" she thought.

"You need to revive the meme," her mom instructed. "It was going so well before."

"I tried that," Stacy II responded, remembering her sermons on New Australia. "It didn't work."

"Pearls before swine, darling. Also, I don't think it helped that they hated you."

"Thanks, mom. Any suggestions?"

"You have to win their hearts and minds."

"You're not the first person to tell me that," she thought, looking over at Filbert.

******



/*
Stacy and Filbert make it to Antarctica

Run into Sullivan, free him

Use Sullivan's knowledge of the PR to get Stacy elected as Chief Executive
*/
