# Chapter 6

To call, or to knock? The question divided the planet. Gabe and Steve were not above the question.

"If we're going to fly all the way out there", explained Gabe, "we would need to build interstellar communication to talk to the ship. So if we're going to build it anyway, why not give them a call first?"

"Firstly", responded Steve, "we wouldn't necessarily need interstellar comms. Did our ancestors have intercontinental communication when they sailed here? No, they just set off."

Gabe tried to respond, but Steve cut him off.

"And secondly, even if we did build interstellar comms, who's to say that the Dysoners could even receive them?"

Although there was no definitive proof yet that the aliens even existed, let alone that they had constructed Dyson spheres around the seventeen stars, "Dysoners" had become both the accepted explanation and nomenclature.

"I should think" responded Gabe "that any civilization advanced enough to construct Dyson spheres would be able to figure out our comms - particularly if we weren't making an effort to encrypt them."

Not to be deterred, Steve continued to repeat Team Knock talking points. "Just think of the lossiness of voice communication without a shared language and cultural understanding! They'd be trying to explain their art, or advanced scientific knowledge, and we wouldn't even have the words to understand them! Some things just have to be understood in person."

"So we'd negotiate a video protocol! There are literally thousands of papers, entire fields of research, that have solved the problem of bootstrapping a common language with an alien species."

"Those techniques have never even been shown to work with other terrestrial species, let alone -"

"Has it occurred to either of you", interrupted a deep voice with a heavy Irish accent, "that announcing our presence to an alien race may be the stupidest idea ever to grace the thoughts of our godforsaken species?"

Gabe and Steve swivelled around in their chairs and immediately recognized the source of the intruding voice. Cillian Murdoch, founder and CEO of Murdoch Heavy Industries. One of the oldest people alive, and occasionally the richest depending on stock fluctuations (he would occasionally trade places for the #1 spot with a Brazilian entertainment mogul). Murdoch had not only solved the considerable engineering problems behind sustainable fusion energy early on in his career, but had also quickly driven the cost of electricity low enough that it had never been economical for a competitor to emerge. Practically all energy generation on the planet lay in the hands of a single privately owned monopoly, controlled by the person standing in the door of the CS department breakroom.

"Uhh", offered Steve.

"Can't say that it has", tried Gabe.

"You mean to say", continued Murdoch, "that neither of you exalted professors ever thought, for the tiniest fraction of a second, that a civilization capable of capturing or otherwise controlling the energy outputs of the most powerful objects in the universe might not want to be our friend?"

Gabe wanted to object that Murdoch was exaggerating and that there were certainly more powerful objects in the universe than the seventeen proximate stars, but felt that that would be to miss the point. Truthfully, the notion that the Dysoners may not be entirely friendly had indeed flashed across the minds of both professors, but being well socialized respectable persons, they had simply ignored it. To call or to knock was the Overton Window, and to step outside the Overton Window was to defenestrate oneself from polite society.

Murdoch had no such qualms. He moved into the breakroom, shut the door behind himself, and glared at the two occupants. "You two are the authors of the Observational Anomalies paper, correct?"

Steve and Gabe both nodded, wordlessly.

Murdoch swung a chair around and sprawled into it. "I thought it was a pretty decent paper myself, but certainly a bit light on the details. No detail on the timeline other than 'in the past forty six thousand years'. I had to turn to the bloody horoscope archive to get some sense of the rate here. You don't happen to have the raw data, do you?"

"We do", offered Gabe meekly, "but I expect you'll be disappointed."

"Last time anyone bothered to scan the night sky was forty six thousand years ago, wasn't it?" guessed Murdoch correctly. "Bloody academics. Wankers, the lot of you. Anyway, I need your help."
