# 61. Man of Destiny

One hundred days alone in the basement. Sullivan didn't know how he knew that fact, but he did. The voice had told him.

The harsh fluorescent lights were on a timed cycle, but it wasn't twenty four hours. He was sure of it. They had cycled eighty-five times, but each light cycle dragged on longer than it should. He was perpetually jetlagged.

Partway through the long afternoon, the now-familiar voice appeared in his head.

"Congratulations on making it a hundred days," it said.

The voice in his head was the only thing keeping him sane.

Three times a day, the dumb waiter dinged and opened to reveal his food. Scrambled eggs, bread, and a glass of water. He ate, drank, used the toilet, and returned to his bed.

The only other feature of the room was the copy of the Newer Testament that had been left in the bedside table. He'd read it, cover to cover, six times.

Lies, the lot of it. He knew, because the voice had told him. He trusted the voice. It sounded old and wise, like a village elder or a supreme court justice.

His gums hurt. Scurvy, he assumed.

He wondered about his wife and kids. How long before they forgot him? He'd never been a very present husband or father. Maybe they barely realized he was gone.

"Some men," the voice assured him, "aren't made to be husbands or fathers. Some men, are men of destiny."

Sullivan was a man of destiny.

The lights turned off, finally. He lay down in his cold, hard bed and shut his eyes. He hadn't showered in a hundred days. He didn't think he smelled too bad.

He went to sleep, and was awoken a few hours later by the door being flung open and crashing into the wall.

---

"Wake up!" shouted a young woman.

"Get on the ground!" added a young man.

He recoiled as a flashlight shone in his face. It felt brighter than any light he'd ever experienced - certainly was many times more powerful than the fluorescent ceiling lights he'd lived under for the past three months. He clamped his eyes shut and curled up in his bed, hoping that the intruders would leave him alone and let him return to his slumber.

They clambered down the stairs, rolled him onto his back, and zip-tied his wrists together. No such luck.

The barrel of a gun was jammed into his side and he was ordered to walk up the stairs. As he ascended, the light spilling in through the door became brighter and brighter.

It wasn't artificial light, he realized. It was sunlight.

---

They sat him down in a wooden chair. He kept his eyes mostly clamped shut, opening them barely a crack to let the sunlight in. He wondered if his eyes would adjust in a few minutes, or if they'd been permanently affected by the dim conditions.

"You smell awful," the young lady informed him. "Like, really bad."

Sullivan wasn't offended. She must not recognize the smell of destiny.

"What's your name?" she asked.

He slightly relaxed his squint and looked up at his rescuers. For whatever reason, they looked familiar. The young woman, in particular, was stunning. He hadn't seen a woman in...gosh. It was a while. He started calculating the exact timespan.

"Oy!" she shouted. "Eyes up here, asshole. Now what's your name?"

Sullivan jolted. What was his name again?

"Sullivan," he eventually answered. "I think."

"Why are you locked in a basement?" asked the young man. Sullivan peered at him. He looked familiar as well.

"It's a long story," he replied.

"Does it have anything to do with you killing our parents?" the woman asked.

Ah. Now he realized why they looked so familiar. The haze of confusion cleared, and he was the situation for what it was. He hadn't been rescued. If anything, his predicament was worse than before.

"There were extenuating circumstances," he attempted to explain.

_Smack!_ Stacy II hit him in the cheek with a...spatula? Interesting choice. Effective, though. His already sensitive gums lit up in blinding pain.

_Oof!_ Filbert punched him in the gut. He doubled over, almost falling off his chair, gasping for breath. The young man moved behind him, wrapped his arm around his neck, and raised him upright again. He looked up at the angry, spatula-wielding young lady with newfound respect.

"So that's a yes, then?" she asked.

"Just go with it," said the voice in his head. "Be apologetic."

"Yes," he sputtered. "I'm sorry."

Filbert released his chokehold and moved back round in front of him. Sullivan slumped back into his chair. "Now what?" he asked the voice.

"These two are your ticket out of here," the voice replied. "They might rough you up a bit, but they won't kill you. Just go along with them."

Sullivan nodded.

Stacy II walked over to a side table and picked out a boning knife from an assortment of tools that she must have placed there earlier. "I am going to surgically swap your fingers and your toes," she said, "without anaesthetic."

Sullivan gulped and looked over at Filbert for reassurance.

"She's not much of a surgeon," warned Filbert. "In fact, I don't think she's ever done any surgery before in her life."

"First time for everything!" she said, cheerily. Are you left-handed, or right?

"You want me to go along with this?" he asked the voice.

"Yeah, that was unexpected," the voice replied. "Let's see where it goes."

"Screw this!" he thought, and bolted out of his chair.

Filbert tackled him to the floor. The crash sent shockwaves of pain through his bones. Scurvy doesn't just affect the gums. Stacy II stood idly by, and watched as Filbert grabbed Sullivan's hair, lifted his head, and smashed his skull into the marble tiles. The world went blurry, then he reflexively curled up and retched as Filbert started kicking him.

"That's enough," said Stacy II.

Filbert lifted Sullivan up and placed him back in the chair. He slumped over again and struggled to breathe. His abdomen hurt. His joints hurt. Everything hurt. The zip-ties cut into his wrists. He balled his hands into fists and hid them under his bottom in a subconscious effort to protect his fingers.

"You didn't want to help me learn surgery?" Stacy II asked. "I'm offended."

"I'm sorry," Sullivan croaked, "I just wasn't feeling it."

"Do you know how under-represented women are in the surgical workforce? You're contributing to historical inequities."

"The thing is, I like my fingers and toes where they currently are."

"Who said this was about you? This is about broader structural issues."

Sullivan paused for a second. Broader structural issues were a keen interest of his. He weighed the pros and cons. "But they're my fingers and toes," he objected, finally.

"And they still will be when I'm done! Jeez, some people."

Sullivan didn't have a response. The world was still blurry and bright, his bones hurt, and he was struggling to breathe. He opened his eyes a bit and watched as she cleaned her fingernails with the sharp point of the boning knife. If it had just been the two of them, he might have been able to overpower her and take the knife. But against her henchman, in his weakened state, he stood no chance.

Stacy II eventually broke the silence. "Of course," she mused, "maybe there's something else you can do for me."

"What?" he asked, warily.

"You understand the inner workings of the People's Republican government, right?"

Sullivan nodded. "Yes," he replied. He'd practically written half of it himself.

"Good," she responded. "It's grown since you left, but the structure is the same. You're going to help me take control of it. Once I'm crowned Stacy II, Queen of the Commonwealth of New Sealand, you can leave. With your fingers and toes where they are presently."

"Is this what you were talking about?" he asked the voice.

The voice didn't respond. Sullivan had to decide on his own.

He drooped his head and strained against the zip-ties. He wished he could put his face in his hands and rub his sore eyes and gums with his fingers. He had never truly appreciated just how much he liked having his fingers attached to his hands. Sometimes, men of destiny have to make hard choices. Ultimately, this was not one of those times.

"Okay," he said. "I'll do it."
