# 62. Permanent Schizophrenia

The bridge disappeared slowly into the Cube of Realistic Physics. Xavier watched, warily, as the pure black wall of nothingness slowly advanced through the room, swallowing up everything as it went.

He didn't remember this detail from his solo mission. His dad must have blacked him out before the CORP had begun swallowing the cockpit.

Ivan watched as the room disappeared into the void. His chair was closer to the CORP than Xavier's. Unless he chickened out and moved, he'd enter first, by a good ten seconds.

"Here we go, eh boss?" he remarked unflinchingly, as the wall bore down upon him.

"I'll see you on the other side, comrade," Xavier replied.

Xavier saw Ivan's eyes go blank a moment before he was swallowed by the blackness. His mind being paused, Xavier assumed.

"So far so good," came his dad's voice in his head. "I think next time we'll just black you all out at once. This is stressful."

Xavier heard keys clacking and Russell and Steve swearing in the background.

"Are you manually pausing people as they pass through the wall?" he asked, incredulously.

"Yes."

"They're spread across twelve floors!"

"And they keep moving about! Stay still, you animals!"

Xavier began to chuckle, and then halted.

"What happens if you miss someone?" he asked.

"And don't pause their mind as they cross?"

"Yeah."

"Dunno. Might be fine. Might give them permanent schizophrenia."

The wall advanced. Xavier tensed up. Permanent schizophrenia sounded unappealing. As the only human to have entered the CORP before, he had the least reason to be nervous. Nonetheless, he anxiously shut his eyes as the wall approached. When he opened them a moment later, the black wall was receding on the other side, and Ivan was sitting in his chair, smiling.

"Easy as that!" his first mate exclaimed. "I don't know what you are making such big deal about."

"Yeah," Xavier thought to his dad in a mock-Russian accent, "what are you making such big deal about?"

"You're welcome," grumbled Vincent curtly, still furiously typing.

"Check it out!" Ivan exclaimed, unclipping himself from his harness. He floated towards the windshield, gazing out at the interior of the cube.

Xavier looked out the window. The universe had once again been replaced by the inside of a cube, outlined in a huge grid. This time, though, the grid glowed with a soft white.

"Tell Steve, thanks for the lighting change" he thought.

"I'll pass it on," his dad replied. "Now leave me alone and go test that equipment."

Xavier unclipped his harness, summoned Ivan, and together they floated to the elevator. The doors were open, and led directly into the shaft. There was no point in running elevators in microgravity, so the Building automatically disabled them and let the crew use the shaft as a corridor between the floors. Of course, when designing this clever feature, Xavier hadn't anticipated the lights not working.

"This is dark as the devil's asshole," Ivan remarked.

"Just move slowly and try not to bump into anyone," Xavier responded.

He manoeuvered into the shaft, pulled on a rung, and floated along the dark corridor until he heard the crew laughing.

He caught a rung, swung out of the shaft, and clumsily crashed into the floor. Ivan followed, held on a moment longer, and expertly floated into the new corridor with the grace of a sea turtle.

"Flawless execution, boss," Ivan said, grinning as he floated by.

Xavier grumbled, grabbed a handhold, and propelled himself to the first door in the corridor.

They were greeted by excited cheers as they opened the door and entered. "We have power!" someone announced.

Xavier looked around at the assortment of equipment. A large box in the middle of the room was humming. A small lightbulb on the side of it was glowing red, and an old, analog voltmeter was attached to it and displaying a non-zero reading.

"Amazing," he responded. "Artificial light, too! Get it hooked up to the rest of the gear and let's test, test, test."

The crew nodded and got back to work.

He continued touring the labs. Most of them had generators as well. He watched as his crew tested out the photolithography machine, various 3D printers, and other equipment that he didn't recognize. His heart shone with pride. He couldn't imagine any other group of people being able to work together so effectively, in such a complicated domain, with such little instruction.

"Oh, crap!" rang out someone's voice from down the corridor. A chorus of panicked shouts followed.

Xavier pulled himself into the corridor to see a group of people rapidly evacuating one of the labs. Ivan was among them.

"What happened?" he asked.

"The lathe works," Ivan responded, simply.

"And?" prompted Xavier.

"And without gravity to catch the shavings..." added Ivan, gesturing towards the window. "Is big mess."

Xavier floated to the door and looked in through the window. Small, metal shavings were flying through the room at high speed, ricocheting off the walls and ceiling and continuing on their path. He groaned. Manufacturing in microgravity was going to be harder than he'd anticipated.

"What will it take to get the rockets working in the cube?" he asked his dad. "We need to simulate gravity."

"It'll take...rocket technology," Vincent answered.

"Not helpful, dad."

"It's literally the entire reason you're in the cube. Do I need to remind you?"

Xavier sighed. His dad was right - it had been a stupid question. Unfortunately, rocket technology that would work in Realistic Physics was a long way off. The tools Steve had provided were practically stone age compared to nanoscale manufacturing. Before they could manufacture rockets, they needed to build a technological bridge - a path to nanoscale that could realistically be followed in Steve's universe, under his physics, using his tools.

Once that was achieved, rockets would be easy.

The embarassed crewmembers from the lathe room scattered to the various other labs, leaving Xavier and Ivan to continue their tour. Everywhere, teams had moved from testing Steve's equipment, to manufacturing with it. The first order of business was to build a computer, so they could do CAD. One team was feeding pre-fabricated punchcards into the photolithography machine, another was hand-soldering components to boards, and the rest were busying themselves with the design and manufacture of sensors, actuators, and other peripherals.

Xavier stifled a yawn. Perhaps the stress of the past week - no, the past several months - had finally gotten to him. He was exhausted.

Just as Xavier and Ivan finished their round, an alarm resembling a smoke detector started to chirp in the ceiling. They looked at the device, and then at each other.

"CO2 alarm," Ivan explained, jogging Xavier's memory.

"Right, of course," Xavier responded.

"We are not running CO2 scrubber, so this was expected. But not until almost twelve hours."

Xavier nodded. The Building was huge, and they'd only been in the cube for half an hour. There was no way his team had respired enough to significantly affect the carbon dioxide concentration in the air. Perhaps the sensor just didn't work properly in Realistic Physics.

"Hey dad," he thought, "what's our CO2 concentration?"

After a brief pause, his dad came back online. "What am I, your ship's computer?" he asked.

"Ship's computer is dead," Xavier grumbled. "All we have is battery-powered stuff, like this CO2 detector."

"Have you tried hooking the generators up to the ship?"

"Less advice, more CO2 readouts, dad."

"Stand by." Vincent paused and Xavier heard the sound of typing in his head. After a few moments, his voice reappeared. "Five thousand parts per million," he announced.
Xavier swore. Ivan looked at him in surprise.

"Five thousand ppm," Xavier relayed.

Ivan furrowed his brow. "Not good," he replied. "Normally is five hundred. Maybe six. Five thousand now is way too early. I checked calculations myself."

Xavier muttered a long stream of litanies under his breath. Five thousand ppm was well above the safe threshold for prolonged exposure. He racked his brain for explanations. Lab animals? Not enough of them. Welding gas leak? Not enough of that either. There was absolutely no reason for the high CO2 levels. Unless...

"Hey dad," he asked, "how do these generators work?"

"Hang tight," his dad replied. "I'll ask Steve."

Xavier second-guessed himself as he waited. It couldn't be the generators. Steve knew better. It must be some flaw with the ship. Perhaps there was a fire on board, and the smoke detectors weren't working.

"Heyo!" appeared Steve's voice in his head. "The generators are great, aren't they? I dug this old design out of the archives. Your ship's too small to house one of our nuclear reactors, you see."

"How do they work?"

"It's quite ingenious! They turn chemical energy into electricity!"

"What's the chemical reaction?"

"The combustion of hydrocarbons, of course! You have similar machines in StevieNix. I think you call them, diesel generators?"

Xavier swore. He'd counted over a dozen diesel generators on his tour. His exhaustion wasn't caused by the recent stress - it was due to the generators burning all the oxygen in the ship. Levels were already high enough to give any health and safety inspector a stroke, and at the current rate, his entire crew would be long dead by the time the Building drifted out of the CORP in eleven and a half hours.
