# 63 Operation Hearts and Minds

Stacy II was pleased with how well Sullivan had responded to being rescued, beaten, and threatened with torture. After a shower, a hearty meal and a glass of orange juice, he almost seemed excited at the prospect of helping her sieze control of the Commonwealth. While she was still wary of him and salty about his having killed her mother, the odious man was turning out to be a wealth of information.

"Technically speaking, the entire government falls under control of the Chief Executive," he explained.

"And the Chief Executive is elected via referendum?" she asked.

"Thus keeping the power in the hands of the people," he replied.

Stacy II scoffed. What a ridiculous idea. No wonder the People's Republic had been such a disaster.

"Of course," Sullivan added, "in practice, the Chief Executive almost never gets his hands dirty. All decisions are handled by lower levels of the bureaucracy. Decisions only bubble up to his level once in a blue moon, and in those cases, he's so far removed from the problem that he's really no better than a magic 8 ball."

"So why don't you just replace him with a magic 8 ball?" Filbert asked, curiously.

"There was a referendum along those lines a few years ago," Sullivan replied, smiling. "A ouija board, actually. It failed to pass. Turns out, people really like having a human to blame. That's the main function of the Chief Executive."

"How long has the current guy had the position for?" asked Stacy II.

"Almost a decade."

Stacy II shot a glare at Filbert. In all of his long and tedious explanations of the moral superiority of the PR's "direct democracy", he'd failed to mention that power ultimately vested in a man who had ruled for ten years. Filbert avoided eye contact and turned slightly red.

"Is he popular?" she asked Sullivan.

"Not really. But he's a good scapegoat. People like to blame the devil they know."

Stacy II pondered this information. The CE's grip on power was more robust than she had expected. Aside from lacking the divine right to rule, the Chief Executive didn't sound too theoretically dissimilar from the monarch of the Theocratic Dominion. Slash the bureaucracy, install a state religion, and they'd be most of the way there.

"How would I go about becoming the Chief Executive?" she asked. "Without going through referendum," she added.

Sullivan smiled. Although he wasn't particularly fond of Stacy II or Filbert, his distaste for the pair was outweighed by his love for political machinations. His talents had languished woefully during his imprisonment, and had rarely even been fully exercised beforehand. This would be fun. Just the right sort of fun for a man of destiny.

"What do you know about succession?" he asked, coyly.

Stacy II smilled in response. "Tell us," she said.

"I'm gonna need a pen and paper. It gets a little complicated."

---

That evening, Stacy II logged on for her weekly coaching call with Amanda.

"How have you been?" Stacy II greeted her.

Amanda had been one of her first clients. Every Tuesday, from 4 to 4:50PM, the two women would hop on a Zoom call and Amanda would unload her emotional baggage onto Stacy II. Stacy II, in turn, tried her best to stay awake, stare earnestly into the camera, and offer cheerful affirmations.

"Ugh," Amanda groaned. "My boss is just the absolute worst."

"Oh darling," Stacy II replied in a simpering tone. "What's she done this time?"

Amanda worked as an assistant gymnasium inspector for the Department of Health. Aside from her willingness to pay Stacy II forty thousand satoshis an hour, Amanda had two other things going for her: Firstly, she hated her job, and secondly, as a government employee, she was technically - although very far down - in the line of succession to Chief Executive.

Amanda cried as she recalled her traumatic week. Stacy II tried earnestly to maintain rapt attention.

"And then," Amanda sobbed, "after all that, she didn't even notice my new leggings! She just walked right past me, and complimented Justine on her hair!"

"Oh, honey," replied Stacy II.

"I know it's dumb to get so upset over...leggings," Amanda sniffed, "but it's a pattern of behaviour, right? I swear it's because I'm Scots-Irish, and she and Justine are both Anglo-Saxon."

Stacy II raised an eyebrow.

"They've been treading all over us for a thousand years! Just as I thought we'd moved past it..."

Her puffy, fat, corn-fed face jiggled as she sobbed. Stacy II wondered how much time she spent utilizing the equipment of the gyms she was sent to inspect.

"Oh, sweetheart," Stacy II consoled her, "she doesn't deserve you."

"You're right," Amanda replied, drying her eyes, "she doesn't. What am I even doing here? Why am I wasting my youth at this stupid job, working for this Protestant cow? I almost want to move to somewhere exotic and eat/pray/love, you know?"

As a certified life coach, Stacy II wasn't supposed to lead her clients in any particular direction. But if a client came up with an idea herself, and if that idea just so happened to benefit Stacy II's ambitions...well, surely there was nothing wrong with lending a word of encouragement?

"You know," Stacy II said carefully, "I think that's one of the best ideas you've ever had. Your life should be about pleasing _you_, not pleasing...Anglo-Saxon Protestants."

Amanda brightened up. "I could go to Spain," she fantasized. "Eat risotto on the beach. Get swept off my feet by a cute Mediterranean guy."

Stacy II didn't bother to correct her understanding of risotto's origin, or remind her of the "pray" element of "eat/pray/love". She was on the scent. "That sounds _amazing_, darling! Honestly, so much more fulfilling than..." she struggled for words that wouldn't demean Amanda's job. "Than hanging out with that _bitch_," she concluded.

"Maybe I'll go to a full moon party," Amanda giggled.

"What's stopping you?"

Amanda's face fell as she came back down to Earth. "My associate," she replied. "She's only just out of school. I can't let her report directly to that malicious cow. It would crush her soul. I'd never forgive myself."

Suppressing the urge to roll her eyes at the thought of a government-employed associate assistant gymnasium inspector, Stacy II pressed forward. "What if you found a replacement for yourself? Someone you trusted to shelter your associate?"

Amanda nodded. "That could work. But who?"

Stacy II moved in for the kill. "Well, it just so happens..."

---

Filbert's contributions to the effort were much less refined.

"Absolutely not," she stated. "The Commonwealth is too big. Any invasion is a suicide mission."

Filbert stared into the angry, hazel eyes of Jack's eldest daughter. For whatever reason, he found feminine annoyance to be an extremely attractive quality. Conveniently, he encountered it almost daily.

"It's not a full-on invasion," he attempted to explain. "We'll just be causing a bit of trouble, is all."

"A bit of trouble?"

"You know, a spot of domestic terror. Assasinations and such. Maybe a bombing or two."

"Why?" she asked. "So you can install that statist bitch you've been hanging out with?"

"Hey!" Filbert bristled, defensively. "Stacy II's not that bad!"

A wicked smile cracked through her annoyed facade. That was pretty attractive too, Filbert thought.

"A statist is 'not that bad', huh? Did her pretty face make you forget everything my dad taught you?"

Filbert narrowed his eyes. Surely, she was just toying with him now.

"She would slash the Commonwealth bureaucracy," he tried to explain. "That would make it more Anarchist than it is now."

"More Anarchist?" she laughed. "That's like saying, getting raped by one person is 'more consensual' than getting raped by an entire gang."

It kind of is, Filbert thought.

"You sound like a goddamned..._Libertarian_," she added, spitting out that final word like it was rattlesnake venom she'd just sucked out of a wound.

"I'll make you a deal," Filbert offered. "Once we get 'that statist bitch' installed, she'll help you find the guys who killed your dad."

Her facade finally shattered. Tears welled up in her eyes as she struggled to remain in control. "And then what?" she asked.

Filbert shrugged. "Whatever you like." He paused, reflecting on the creative methods of torment he'd learned in New Australia. "Do you know what gibbets are?"

She shook her head.

Filbert explained.

She was on the phone within the hour, enlisting her friends into Filbert's domestic terror squad.
