# 64. Another day in the office

"Crap!" yelled Xavier, and flailed out of the way. Dozens of red-hot droplets of molten steel drifted away from his weld pool and across the engine room, before attaching themselves to the far wall.

"Wow," Ivan chuckled, "you are really bad at this."

"Why would I ever need this obsolete skill?" Xavier asked, angrily brandishing the MIG torch. "I bet I'm also bad at...mending oxcarts!"

"MIG welder is like hot glue gun. Much easier than mending oxcarts."

Lacking the energy to fight, Xavier handed the torch over to his first mate. "All right old man, show me how it's done."

The middle-aged Russian man positioned the torch between their makeshift exhaust manifold and the hole they'd cut in the inner airlock door. He wiggled it a little until he was satisfied with the angle. "Is like this," he said, squeezing the trigger.

Xavier's visor darkened automatically to cut the blinding white light of the arc, and his ears were momentarily filled with the crackle of electricity. Then, Ivan stopped and ducked to avoid more red-hot droplets of liquid steel flying across the room.

Xavier glared at him.

"Okay, is a little tricky in microgravity," Ivan said, excusing himself.

Eventually, they worked out a system whereby one of them would operate the torch, and the other would blow compressed air at the flying droplets in an attempt to corral them back to the weld. The result was a complete mess, but didn't contain any obvious gaps.

"Think it will hold?" asked Xavier.

"Let's see," responded Ivan, smacking the airlock vacuum button.

Compressors groaned as they sucked the precious air out of the airlock. Xavier listened closely and heard a faint whistling from one particularly egregious weld.

"There," he indicated.

They sealed the leak, and several more after that. Finally, the manifold was silent.

"Business time," Ivan remarked.

Xavier nodded and pushed off the wall, floating towards the diesel generator that was currently powering their equipment and belching CO2 into the room. Bracing against the wall, he shoved it in Ivan's direction and then kicked off towards the eleven other generators that were floating in the center of the room. His head was spinning and his migraine was half-blinding. Venting the exhaust would prevent things from getting worse, but there was already a dangerous amount of CO2 in the air. He prayed that the crew upstairs had found a solution.

As his condition decayed, each generator became harder to move than the last. One by one, Xavier kicked off the generator, launching himself to the wall and the generator to Ivan, who caught it and secured its exhaust to the manifold with tubes and hose clamps.

After what felt like an hour, all twelve generators were wired into the ship and venting their exhaust into the empty airlock. Xavier was shattered from the effort and his lungs felt like they wanted to catch fire and cave in.

"Come on, boss," Ivan said, gently grabbing Xavier's shoulders and shoving him towards the elevator shaft. "You look like man after long party in Vladivostok strip club."

The elevator shaft wasn't pitch black anymore. Light spilled into it from one of the twelve floors. Xavier's eyes closed as they drifted towards it.

In his half-slumber, he noticed the light brighten through his eyelids. He felt Ivan grab the back of his shirt and wrest him in the direction of the light. After a few more manipulations, the air changed. It felt cool.

He opened his eyes and blinked. He was in one of the labs, along with the entire rest of the crew.

"Shut the door!" someone yelled.

Xavier turned his head to see Ivan shutting the door behind him.

"How did you go?" someone else asked.

"Mission accomplished," Ivan responded, beaming. "And you?"

"It turns out, the metal-organic framework inside the supercaps loves CO2," the crewmember responded. "We're ripping them all open. So long as you keep the damn door closed, we're gonna make it."

Xavier looked around the lab. Everywhere, Steve's exotic machines were whirring, lights were blinking, and crewmembers were bustling back and forth, chattering and tinkering. A stranger who'd just arrived on-scene would have had no idea that this motley collection of scientists and engineers had just narrowly avoided a mass-casualty event. Everything had already returned to business as usual.

Xavier breathed an enormous sigh, and drifted back to sleep. Just another day in the office.
