# 65. The Malicious Cow

The malicious cow stopped by Stacy II's desk. "Hi darling," she moo'd, "do you have that presentation ready yet?"

Stacy II quietly dug a ball-point pen into her thigh to distract her from the unfamiliar torment of maintaining a professional facade in a white-collar environment. "Not yet," she replied. "You only just told me about it last night."

"Okay, well, we're kind of on a deadline, you know?"

Stacy II smiled politely as she pictured Filbert's domestic terror squad hog-tying the malevolent bureaucrat and drowning her in the Pacific.

"I'll have it ready within the hour," she replied.

"Thanks, darling! Oh, and another thing. I realized that focusing on Eastern European gyms might be construed as a bit...well...I worry we might be sending the wrong message! Do you mind switching it to Polynesians? Thank you!"

With that, she strode off, leaving Stacy II staring at her nearly complete presentation on Sanitation Practices in the Eastern European Immigrant Gymnasium Community. She had worked on it all night. Stifling a sob, she deleted every slide after the title slide, changed "Eastern European" to "Polynesian", and started again.

---

"I'm not eating that!" Archibald objected, batting away the candy bar. "It looks like a dump!"

"You'll like it," Blake insisted. "Trust me."

"Like a solid, straight dump!"

Filbert was starting to feel some regret at having enlisted the two New Australians to join his domestic terror squad. But as he surveyed the rest of his rag-tag band of would-be miscreants, he was reminded that Archibald and Blake were the only two with actual, up-close, violent experience. With any luck, they'd soon move past their culture shock and instruct the others in their martial methods.

"Status report?" he asked.

Blake attempted to respond, but his mouth being full of chocolate, marshmallow and caramelized high-fructose corn syrup made his words unintelligible.

Archibald glared at him. "What my dump-eating superior is trying to explain," he interjected, "is that we've found her apartment. We knocked on the door after she left and there were like ten other people crammed inside. Mattresses all over the floor. You losers live in worse conditions than we do."

"What did you say when they opened the door?" Filbert asked, curiously.

"Pretended to be ceiling inspectors," Archibald responded. "That's a thing here, right?"

Filbert raised an eyebrow and looked at the rest of the team, who were similarly bemused. "I can't say that-"

"Anyway, their ceilings were crap," Archibald interrupted. "Made out of these foamy squares. They move when you touch 'em. I told 'em I'd give 'em a report and they'd have two weeks to sort 'em out."

"Okay, sure, whatever. So we can't nab her at her apartment?"

Blake finally swallowed his mouthful of confectionary and responded. "Nah, way too crowded. We'll have to get her on her way home."

"I thought you said yesterday that her commute's too crowded too?"

Blake nodded. "Yeah, it is."

Filbert sighed. "Anyone else got any ideas?" he asked the group.

Jack's daughter, Annabel, piped up. "Yeah, I had one."

---

"Beautiful," she exclaimed, snapping another picture. "Try to subtly clench your teeth as you smile, really make that jawline pop. There you go! What a hunk!"

"Thanks, Annabel," Blake responded, relaxing his jaw and running his hands through his recently styled hair. "Are we done yet?"

"No!" she replied. "Now we need to do the group shots! If you don't have at least one group shot, she'll think you're a psycho who wants to kidnap and murder her."

"Right," Filbert mused, tapping his arm impatiently. "Can't have that."

"It's already going to be an uphill battle," she smirked. "Let's not make it any harder than it already is. Now get in the frame and try to make Blake look charming."

Filbert got in the frame and tried to make Blake look charming.

---

"What a charming accent!" the malevolent cow remarked, over her extra large glass of house red. "Where did you say you were from?"

"Err," Blake responded, utterly unprepared. "Well, my parents are from Cocklebiddy."

"Cocklebiddy! What a lovely name. Is it nice?"

"Oh yes," Blake lied. "Very posh. They used to play golf."

"I'd love to visit some time! Will you take me?"

"How about I take you back to my apartment first?"

Filbert and Annabel, seated just within earshot, simultaneously winced.

"This was a terrible idea," Filbert whispered.

"I think it's going okay!" Annabel replied, defensively.

"I'm going to die from second-hand embarrassment."

"He's hotter than ninety-nine percent of these soy-fed twinks," she hissed, gesturing around the restaurant. "He could say anything and she'll still leave with him. Mark my words."

Despite being resolutely disinterested in courting Jack's daughter, Filbert's blood ran hot at her compliment of another man's appearance. He realized that she'd found a new way of tormenting him.

"It's not going to work," he grumbled.

"Look!" she whispered excitedly. "There they go now!"

Filbert slammed his drink, grabbed Annabel's arm, and together they followed Blake and the cow out of the restaurant.

---

The cow was in love. She reflected on all those lonely nights she'd spent, drinking whiskey and swiping through profiles. The awful dates, with low-quality men who looked nothing like their pictures. The bad decisions - the more of which she'd made, the more whiskey she'd needed to drink to forget.

Finally, her prayers had been answered. A genuine stud of a man - sculpted from marble by Michelangelo and brought to life by divine magic - had not only shown interest in her, but invited her back to his apartment. His _own_ apartment, where he lived _by himself_. She was so head over heels, that she barely noticed when an unmarked van pulled up next to them and the door slid open.

She heard running behind her. She turned and saw a young couple who had been at the bar, running up to her. She looked quizzically at the hunk, who inexplicably seized her, and with the couple's help, shoved her into the van. The three climbed in after her, the door slid shut, and the van was moving again before she had time to scream.

Twenty minutes later, the van was parked and she was unloaded. The stench of stale excrement filled her nostrils. They were in the lowlands. She retched as the three reprobates prodded her into an abandoned house and filed in behind her.

Her latest hire was standing in the hallway, smiling.

"Fancy seeing you here!" Stacy II exclaimed.

"You _bitch_!" she responded. "You absolute _bitch_!"

"You don't like your new digs?"

"I hope you burn in hell!"

"We can get you some air freshener."

"Your presentation sucked too!"

"I was pressed for time."

"People were practically falling asleep!"

Stacy II declined to answer. She folded her arms, tapped her hand and smiled at her patiently.

"Why the hell did you have to play with my heart?" the cow demanded. "And why have you dragged me to the septics?"

Stacy II laughed. "You want to get out of here?" she asked.

"Yes!"

"Okay," Stacy II said. "Follow me."

The cow followed Stacy II into the dining room. A laptop was open on the table, displaying a document. She read it. It was a letter of resignation, nominating her latest hire as her replacement. It included such phrases as "absolutely stand-out performer," "vastly overqualified," and "destined for greatness."

"A bit on the nose, don't you think?" she asked.

"Digitally sign it and send it to everyone above you. Then you can go," Stacy II replied.

The cow sized up her adversary. She was petite. Although the cow wasn't much of a fighter, she could probably subdue the tiny woman with ease. Crush her. Smother her.

Seeming to read her mind, Stacy II cleared her throat and nodded behind her. The cow looked over her shoulder and saw that the hunk and the couple had been joined by an assortment of underworld characters, brandishing crowbars, kitchen knives, and menacing-looking power tools whose names she didn't know. The implication was clear. She pressed her index finger into the laptop's fingerprint scanner, held her eye up to the camera, and digitally signed the document.

Stacy II stepped forward and closed the laptop. "Now that wasn't so hard, was it?" she asked, as the miscreants closed in and seized the cow's arms.

"What's all this?" she asked. "You said I could go!"

"Of course you can go!" Stacy II replied sweetly. She reached into her pocket and pulled out a gold coin. "I just didn't specify where."

The cow sputtered and began to regret how she'd treated her underling. "Look, I'm sorry I insulted your presentation! It wasn't that bad, honestly!"

"Death or transportation?" Stacy II asked, grinning. She flipped the coin, caught it, and slapped it on her wrist. Peeking under her hand, she grimaced.

"And I'm sorry about the Polynesian thing! I shouldn't have switched the subject last-minute, I know!"

Stacy II chuckled. She was clearly enjoying this. The cow hated her with all her heart.

"Unlucky," her adversary announced. "You got transportation."

The cow relaxed a little bit. Transportation didn't sound too bad.

Stacy II moved closer and whispered menacingly into her ear. "You'll wish you'd gotten death."

---

The stench of the stale human feces was replaced by the smell of her own breath, filling the black fabric hood that was secured over her head. She lost track of time during the long, cold boat ride. The hood was finally removed after what felt like days. Blinking in the light, she stumbled as she was pushed into a small room. No, not a room - a hyperloop shuttle.

The doors closed and away she went. They opened again hours later, and she stepped out into the midday sun. The air smelled of rotting meat, and she was immediately assaulted by flies. She seemed to be in some sort of village.

"Hello hello hello!" rang out a deep voice. "What have we here? Untended human capital, just hanging out by the hyperloop station?"
