# 66. Space Fish

"Dad!" Xavier thought. "Dad dad dad! Come in, dad!"

"What is it, kid?" came Vincent's voice into his head.

"I need money."

"Hah!"

Xavier looked around the now-vacant lab. He'd dismissed the crew when they'd successfully crossed back into StevieNix Physics a few hours ago. They were all either drinking or sleeping, and the ship was once again fully functional. The CO2 scrubbers were working overtime, the nanobots had repaired the hole in the airlock, and the fusion engines were blazing, accelerating the ship at a comfortable 1g back to the budding Anarchist colony in the Asteroid Belt.

"It's for your benefit! Hear me out!"

Vincent grumbled and Xavier continued with his pitch.

"You remember the help you had when you shrank conventional manufacturing down to nanoscale?"

"Help? You mean Russell? He was useless!"

"I meant the omniscient large language model."

"Right. That was handy." Vincent paused for a moment and added, "I guess Russell did code that."

"Yeah. Anyway, guess what I don't have?"

"An omniscient LLM?"

"Bingo," Xavier thought. "And even if I did, it probably wouldn't help, because _you_ don't have one."

"I know," Vincent responded. "We're not in a sim. You are. But how's money gonna help?"

Xavier explained his idea. When he was done, his dad seemed satisfied.

"I think Russell has a few bitcoin kicking around," he mused. "Let me ask him."

Xavier recalled how, while his dad had spent the last two decades of his life building islands and giving them away for free, Russell had operated a literal gold mine. A few minutes later, Vincent came back with Russell's passphrose. Xavier typed it into his bitcoin wallet. When he saw the balance, he almost had a heart attack.

"Yeah," he thought. "That outta do it."

---

The prospect of earning an entire bitcoin for a Realistic Physics-compatible autonomous manufacturing robot energized the entire Anarchist space-faring community. Within a few days of the bounty being announced, the zone around the CORP started to get very congested. Ships and habitats of all sizes jostled for space to run their experiments inside the Cube of Realistic Physics.

Xavier was once again inundated with manufacturing requests. Everyone wanted their own set of Steve's equipment. Rather than spend weeks in the Asteroid Belt turning rocks into generators and photolithography machines, Xavier finished the job he'd set out to do two years ago: He democratized nanoscale manufacturing. Somewhat.

He built another ASIC, loaded it with instructions for building more ASICs, and handed the package over to the closest trustworthy person he could find - the captain of the _Nessie_.

"Now remember," he warned the captain, "if this falls into the wrong hands..."

"Yes, I know."

"We're screwed."

"Yup."

"Completely and utterly munted."

"Mhm."

"Dead. All of us."

"Yup."

"It's not that I don't want you to make more of them. I do. Just...This is serious."

"I was thinking we could perhaps make some sort of guild," the captain suggested.

Xavier laughed. "What, with like, secret hand signals and stuff?"

"If you like."

"Maybe a blood oath?"

"We can do a blood oath."

Xavier stared at his eyes. He couldn't detect the faintest trace of irony in the grizzled man's steely expression. He'd chosen well. "A blood oath sounds good. Get to it."

With that, Xavier and his crew returned to the Cube.

---

"They look like fishes," Ivan remarked, looking out at the scene.

Xavier chuckled as he watched the hundreds of vessels swarm together and enter the cube at the same speed at one end, while hundreds more drifted out the other end and ignited their engines, navigating their way back round to the entrance. Ivan was right - they resembled a school of fish swimming in laps, entering and exiting a glowing section of pipe hovering over an invisible sea floor.

"Shall we join them?" he asked.

"Let's do it, boss!" his first mate responded.

---

They were too far behind to win the bounty for the first autonomous manufacturing robot - that bitcoin was claimed by a team of twenty out of New Gangnam. The next size down was won by their rivals from New Vienna. Past that point, progress became harder. So many individual technological breakthroughs were necessary that Xavier and his team spent more time crafting bounties than trying to win them.

"We need better optics," Ivan pointed out. "The robots are already guessing where things are. There's no way anyone can shrink again with these cameras."

"What do you think?" Xavier asked. "0.01 bitcoin for a camera with...micrometer resolution?"

"No. Smaller. You don't want to make it too easy."

The camera was achieved a few days later. A Whale Fund startup claimed the bounty, and the CAD design was distributed all over the Internet.

"You getting all this, dad?" Xavier thought.

"Loud and clear," Vincent responded.

"Does it actually work up there?"

"We'll know once the robots finish building it. But if it's anything like the last two designs you sent up, it'll work just fine."

"Who needs an omniscient supercomputer when you have unlimited funds and raw human intelligence, huh?"

Vincent chuckled. "Those funds are very much limited, kid."

"We haven't even made a dent."

"Watch yourself, money spends faster than you think."

Xavier smiled and posted another bounty. He knew he'd done a good job, even if his dad wouldn't admit it.
