# 68.

Every time Stacy walked into the office, there was someone new there. Now that the three monkeybots had managed not to kill anybody and were starting to produce exciting new technology, everyone suddenly wanted to join the team.

As the Project Manager, Stacy suddenly found herself inundated with work.

"Hi Stacy," said one of the recent additions to the team. "Do you mind if I get a few minutes on the fab today? There's a new carbon-titanium lattice I want to try out."

Stacy checked her spreadsheet. "Sorry," she apologized, "the earliest slot I have is six minutes on Monday at 3:18AM."

The person grumbled but accepted the slot and wandered off back to his computer to watch the developments in the Cube of Realistic Physics.

"Getting pretty tight, aren't we?" Russell asked.

"He's lucky he only wants a few minutes," Stacy responded. "The next full hour is almost three weeks out."

Russell sucked air in through his synthetic robot teeth and shook his head. "We need more fab space," he remarked.

"I've already asked Murdoch," she replied.

---

That afternoon, a meeting was called. The three AIs entered into the conference room together and greeted Steve, who was already there. Murdoch arrived a few minutes late, and shut the door.

"Thank you all for coming," he greeted them. "How's everything going?"

"Pretty good," Stacy responded. "We need more space, though. Everyone's crammed in here and the fab is way over capacity. It's taking weeks to make anything."

Murdoch nodded. "Annex building five," he said simply. "It's just filled with die presses and stuff. Just turn everything there into nanobots."

"Building five is a good start," Stacy replied, "but we need more. One extra building won't let us clear the backlog."

Murdoch pondered a few moments, clearly reluctant to turn over any other buildings. "Can these robots manufacture new buildings?" he asked Russell, Vincent and Steve.

"Easily," Vincent replied.

"How long will that take?"

"Assuming you've got the raw materials...maybe one day per building?" Vincent estimated.

Murdoch nodded. "Good. Get me a bill of materials and I'll take care of them tomorrow. Then you lot break ground the day after that, and then I never want to hear about capacity issues again. Deal?"

"Deal," Stacy responded. Her meticulous spreadsheet schedule was about to be shredded, but it would be worth it.

"Excellent," Murdoch continued. "Now that's out of the way, let's get to the actual agenda item." He crossed his fingers and leaned forward onto the table. "The tech transfer appears to be going quite well," he started.

The rest of the room nodded.

"Assuming we get our fab issues sorted, we'll be in orbit in a matter of weeks."

More nods.

"We could have an interstellar spacecraft in as little as a month."

Stacy glanced at her doomed spreadsheet. The timing seemed aggressive, but not impossible. Innovations were popping out of the sim at a blistering pace, and from what she'd gleaned from the boys, interstellar travel wasn't nearly as much of a challenge in Realistic Physics as it was thought to be down in StevieNix.

"So my question to you lot is, what will our first interstellar mission look like? Who will go, where will they go, and what equipment will they need?"

Stacy watched as the boys argued for the next twenty minutes, occasionally being subtly guided in particular directions by Murdoch's leading, Socratic-style questions. Slowly, a picture emerged.

The first mission would be a scouting trip to Sirius. The craft would be the smallest possible vehicle that could get them there and back. A tin can with a fusion rocket. As for who would go, the ideal crew would have little-to-no life support requirements, the ability to withstand extremely high g-forces, and not be too missed back home.

Murdoch's questions to the monkeybots got more pointed.

Eventually, Russell caved to the manipulative businessman's pressure. "I'll go," he volunteered.

Murdoch nodded. "Good man," he replied. "You'll need a crewmate though."

Stacy flushed as she felt everyone's eyes flick in her direction. She didn't want to go to the disappeared star. She wanted to stay where she was. She was perfectly happy playing Project Manager, enjoying her coffees with Gabe, and keeping an eye on her husband and children in StevieNix. They needed her! The number of times she'd helped her daughter out of a jam...

The room was silent. The decision had already been made. Everyone knew who Russell's crewmate would be, the only remaining matter was for her to accept it.

Stacy looked down. The other day, while she was changing, she'd noticed an inscription on the bottom of her synthetic foot - _Property of Murdoch Heavy Industries_. Property. Property doesn't get to choose its fate, but it can choose the amount of dignity it has on the way.

"I'll come with you," she volunteered.

"Excellent," Murdoch replied, smiling. "It'll be loads of fun, I'm sure! If not, I'm sure there's some way to hibernate you. Hah! Thank you all for coming, meeting adjourned!"

The rest of the team filed out of the conference room, leaving Stacy and Russell to sit in silence, bewildered.

"Excited?" asked Russell, breaking the silence.

Stacy forced a smile. "Of course," she lied. "I just hope they serve good food on board."

Russell laughed. "The finest rehydrated nutrient packs money can buy," he said.

With that, he got up and left the room, leaving Stacy alone to ponder the prospect of being shot off into outer space with some nutrient packs and a very low likelihood of return.

She really, really preferred the spreadsheets.
