# 69. Out of Control

"I did it!" Stacy II announced, beaming with pride and waving a folded piece of paper. "I got the job!"

Filbert took the letter from her outstretched hand and unfolded it. It was a printout of an email from the Chief Executive, nominating Stacy II to direct the Department of Health. "Congratulations," he said. "You're getting pretty close!"

"He mentioned my 'indomitable courage in the face of danger,'" she bragged, skipping round the room.

"What happened to the previous director?" asked Sullivan.

"She quit," Stacy II gloated. "Couldn't take the pressure. Something about her children being kidnapped or whatever."

Sullivan glared at Filbert and shook his head. "You've gotta rein in your squad," he said, pulling out his phone and pulling up an article. He pushed his phone towards Filbert. "This is getting out of hand."

Filbert swivelled the phone around and read the headline.

"Bombing at Department of Commerce Headquarters," he read aloud.

Stacy II moved next to him to get a better view of the screen. "Twelve killed, thirty injured in fourth terror attack this week," she read.

Filbert pushed the phone back across the table to Sullivan. "That wasn't us," he said. "We've been laying low since the casino."

"Bullshit," Sullivan responded.

"I'm serious! It wasn't us!"

"Do you actually know that?" Sullivan challenged him. "What about those savages you imported from the penal colony? What are they doing when you're not watching them?"

"Probably binge watching _Sex and the City_", Filbert laughed. "They discovered it two days ago and have already made it up to Season Four."

Sullivan opened his mouth, and after a few seconds to take in this newfound information, closed it again without saying anything.

"I'm positive it wasn't anyone in my crew," Filbert reassured him.

"Then who was it?" Stacy II demanded. "And who kidnapped the director's kids?"

Filbert bit his bottom lip.

"I can't say for sure," he said cautiously, "but...it could be wannabe recruits. We've been getting bombarded with emails."

The others stared at him incredulously.

"People are bombing government offices and kidnapping children to try to join your domestic terror squad?" Stacy II asked.

"Balaclava guy's domestic terror squad," Filbert corrected her. "My squad doesn't exist, remember?"

"Do you respond to their emails?" Sullivan asked. "Do you let them join balaclava guy's squad?"

"Of course not! I assumed half the emails are from feds."

"And the other half? Are they just going to keep wreaking terror until balaclava guy responds?"

Filbert looked down at the desk. He wasn't enjoying this interrogation. As far as he was concerned, he and his team had done their jobs perfectly. Whose fault was it that the Commonwealth was being rocked by copy-cat attacks? He wasn't sure, but it certainly wasn't his. Truth be told, it was probably the Commonwealth's fault for inspiring such grassroots anger in the first place.

"What are you going to do," Stacy II asked slowly, "when I win? How are you going to stop the attacks once I become Chief Executive?"

Filbert swallowed. He hadn't thought of that.

---

Annabel was unimpressed when he relayed the conversation to her later.

"What are they complaining about?" she asked. "The operation was a total success."

Filbert sighed and cast his eyes about the abandoned warehouse his team had repurposed as their headquarters. Most of the team was sprawled across a random assortment of couches and chairs set up around the TV. They'd moved on to Season 5. He could sense a spiritual malaise spreading among his recruits. Laying low didn't suit them.

"I think they just worry it's gotten out of control," he replied. "With all the copycat attacks and stuff."

"Isn't this exactly what she wanted?" Annabel demanded hotly. "'Government employee' is now the most dangerous job in the Commonwealth. People are resigning in droves. It's perfect cover."

"Yeah, but-"

"Honestly, it's enough to make me feel totally unappreciated," she continued. "If 'Queen Stacy the Ungrateful' doesn't like our work, maybe she can conduct her own domestic terror attacks."

Filbert buried his face in his hands and tried to ignore the TV blaring in the background. Dealing with interpersonal drama was rapidly becoming his least favourite aspect of management.

"How would you proceed?" he asked.

Annabel sighed. "Respond to the emails," she replied unenthusiastically. "Even if we aren't going to recruit these wannabes, we can at least try to cool them down."

Filbert nodded. It wasn't a bad idea. Even if half of the emails were from feds, what would they complain about? It's not illegal to try to _prevent_ terror attacks.

Just as he pulled his phone out of his pocket, it started ringing. He answered it and put it to his ear.

"Hello?" he asked.

"Is this Dress Lady's boyfriend?" asked a deep, distorted voice on the other side.

"Err..." Filbert replied, unsure of how to respond.

"Because you're going to have to break open the piggy bank if you ever want to see her again," the voice continued.

"I don't have a girlfriend," Filbert finally responded. "You must have the wrong number."

"Please hold," the voice replied.

Filbert's pulse quickened as he looked across the table at a confused Annabel.

"Who is it?" she mouthed.

He ignored her.

After an agonizing several seconds of silence, Stacy II's teary voice crackled over the phone.

"Filbert?" she asked. "Oh God, Filbert, please help me!"

Filbert's eyes widened in shock. He didn't want to believe it.

Stacy II sniffed. "They're saying they'll kill me if you don't cough up two kilos of gold."

Filbert swore quietly. Could they really have gotten to her? And where was he going to find two kilos of gold? They wouldn't really kill her, would they?

"Please, Filbert," she sobbed. "I think they're serious."

The line went dead. Filbert looked at it, confused and white as a sheet. He tried to redial the number, but it was private. He looked across the table at Annabel. He had no idea what to do.

"What's all this about a girlfriend?" she asked, annoyed.
