# 7. The Lynchpin of Collaboration

Half an hour later, Murdoch was starting to regret his decision to enlist the help of the two professors. His attempt at exhortation had been immediately derailed straight back to the Call vs Knock debate which he had interrupted. The momentary shock of this industrial titan showing up to recruit Steve and Gabe had vanished upon them realizing the opportunity to advance the positions of their hobby-horses in front of an enlarged audience.

"All I'm saying", Steve droned passionately in a way only a seasoned university professor could achieve, "is that collaboration best happens in person. If we really want to make the most-"

"That's enough!" interrupted Murdoch. "Don't either of you understand game theory? Sure, maybe for whatever stupid reason the Dysoners have any interest in our art or science. Unlikely, but you can have it. Let's assume that ninety-six percent of them are the la-la-kumbaya intellectual care bears you lot think they are. It doesn't matter! Think about the other four percent. In any situation where two or more people collaborate, a prisoner's dilemma opens up. An ecological niche, for psychos and sociopaths to exploit the collaboration of everyone else. Collaboration breeds parasites and predators. It's a fundamental law of the universe, like F equals m a."

Steve and Gabe stared blankly at their irate guest as he continued his monologue.

"Think about it. Why do you pay for things at the store? Why don't you just steal whatever you want? Wait - don't answer that question, you obviously don't steal things because you, along with just about everyone else on this planet, are a couple of effete, ineffectual compliance artists who would chase the shopkeeper down to throw money at him if he left the store unattended. But think about the remaining four percent. Why don't they just steal whatever they want? Why don't they kill every shopkeeper in town, seize all their wares, and jack up the prices by a factor of ten? You only need one psycho to ruin everything for everyone."

The thought had never occurred to Steve and Gabe. Obviously, on a macro level, the answer to "why pay for things?" was "because if everyone didn't pay for things, no one would provide them". Ditto for murder. But on an individual level?

"Violent retribution", answered Murdoch, furiously tapping the table with his finger. "The threat of violent retribution is the solution to the prisoner's dilemma. It is the lynchpin of collaboration, the cornerstone upon which all civilization is built."

Steve thought immediately of the collaborative open-source community surrounding StevieNix, and almost started laughing at the idea of enacting violent retribution against people who submitted substandard pull requests.

"And before you start going on about your open-source ethos", continued Murdoch pointedly, "realize the difference. Sim planets are an infinite resource. Real life planets made of dirt and carbon and whatever else are not. You've already acquiesced to the socially maladjusted by giving StevieNix away, and it cost you nothing because copy/paste is free. You can't copy/paste our solar system - you can only take it by force, likely by exterminating its current inhabitants."

"Besides," he abruptly pivoted, betraying the unplanned nature of his tirade, "what makes you think you're going to be dealing with the hippy dippy care bears anyway? This is interplanetary politics we're talking about! Who do you think hangs out at the top of the alien power structure, care bears or cutthroat amoral sociopaths driven by nothing but pure, unsullied lust for power?"

He paused for breath, and concluded his rant. "Bottom line, if you want to trade with people, especially people you don't know, you or someone you trust have to be willing to enforce the rules of the trade with the tools of the inquisition or you'll soon find yourself and your entire civilization penniless and naked, face-down in a canal."

The last part went a bit over their heads, but Steve and Gabe got the general gist of his argument. "So you're saying", Steve attempted to paraphrase, "that the only way we can collaborate with the Dysoners is if we have the technology to hurt them?"

"Not just hurt them", responded Murdoch, "but to destroy them. To annihilate their civilization so thoroughly that not one alien heart is left beating, not one building left standing, not one molecule left fused together. And even then, it won't be enough. The means are necessary but insufficient - what we really need is the will. We need absolute merciless unhinged killers in our back pocket. Only then, would the threat be credible."

Steve and Gabe looked at each other, and back to Murdoch. Steve wondered how many laws Murdoch had just broken in delivering his diatribe, and hoped that no passers-by had overheard any of it. He was grateful for the rat's nest's loud cooling fans.

"So you came to...us?"

Murdoch sighed. "Yes, and honestly it's beginning to strike me as an outrageously stupid idea. But here's the problem, right? Building the technology is hard enough, but where are we going to find the killers? Outside of a few people in government and a handful of us old-timers, we've done gone and eradicated all the genes for the exact personality traits we need. Aggression. Ambition. Absolute psychotic lunacy. Of the five hundred million people alive, I bet there are less than a thousand who could do what would need to be done. Plus, you'd be hard-pressed to actually locate a single one - it's not exactly something you'd tick off on a survey, is it?"

Gabe laughed. "How willing are you to destroy an entire alien race? Very willing, willing..."

Steve nodded. "Right, and I can't imagine your 'violent killer breeding program' would gain much popular support."

Murdoch smiled. At last, he was getting through to them. "Exactly. Hope you enjoyed your hundred thousand years' peace everyone, now we're going to genetically engineer a vast army of demented murderers."

"So what do you propose?" asked Steve.

Murdoch pointed his chin towards the rat's nest, humming in the corner. "How's the AI in your sim coming along, Steve?"
