# 71. doomsquad69

"I've seen enough!" Annabel announced, tapping the laptop screen. "These are definitely our guys."

"Doomsquad69?" Filbert asked, attempting to rub her fingerprint off with his sleeve. "How do you know it's not one of the other groups that emailed us with kidnapping plans?"

"Doomsquad69's proposed targets are way more high profile. Plus, they appear to have actually gone through with it."

Filbert winced as she demonstrated her point with more screen tapping. Still, she had a point. The latest message from them read, "We got another one. Some fancy government exec. Wanna meat? We could teach you a thing or too."

"But they're idiots," he objected.

"Yeah," she replied. "A bit embarrassing for Stacy II to be honest. Being kidnapped by a bunch of...differently abled people. Still, I bet you anything, it's them."

Filbert gave one last vain attempt to clean the smudges off his screen before giving up and typing out a reply to the email.

---

"You don't look like balaclava guy," the leader of doomsquad69 objected through a mouthful of pain-au-chocolat.

"You don't look like a criminal mastermind," Filbert replied, sizing up the scrawny teenager across from him. Harold, as he'd introduced himself, looked horrendously out of place in the boho-chic café - resembling instead someone who resided in a trailer park and trapped squirrels for food.

"Looks can be decieving," Harold remarked, finally swallowing his mouthful and reaching for his oat flat white. "How do I know you're not a fed?" he asked.

"You're the one who emailed me. How do _I_ know _you're_ not a fed?"

"Would a fed do this?" asked the kid, fumbling in his bag. Eventually, he pulled out a handgun and aimed it across the table at Filbert. As if they'd sensed the sudden escalation, the other patrons of the café went quiet and all Filbert could hear was the whistling of the barista's steam wand.

"Put that away," he whispered harshly, "you total moron."

The scrawny teenager thought about it for a moment, before sheepishly putting the gun back in his bag. The buzz of conversation returned to the café, albeit quieter than before.

"You've made your point," Filbert continued with his voice lowered. "There's no way a fed would be that stupid."

"Don't mess with me," Harold warned.

Filbert bit his tongue and tried to move the conversation forward. "What are you after?" he asked.

"Huh?"

"Why did you contact me?"

"Oh. Yeah. doomsquad69 would like to collab."

"Okay. Your proposal?"

"We need a base of operations. And additional firepower."

"Right," Filbert responded, taking a sip of his latte and resisting the urge to roll his eyes. "And what do you have to offer in return?"

The adolescent leader of doomsquad69 locked eyes with Filbert and tapped his temple. "Strategic brilliance," he replied, without a hint of irony.

Filbert laughed so hard he choked on his coffee and spat it all over the table.

---

The moving van parked in front of the warehouse and Harold jumped out of the driver's door, followed by two other boys of similar age, build, and demeanour.

"Ladies and gentlemen," announced the leader, "I present to you - doomsquad69!"

The two newcomers bowed in sync, to scattered and unenthusiastic applause from Filbert's group.

"What's in the van?" asked Annabel, stepping forward and gesturing to the cargo hold. She froze mid-step as the two henchmen responded to her appearance with lecherous leering and animalistic gutteral noises. Grimacing, she retreated behind Filbert, who puffed out his chest and tried to look tough.

"Glad you asked," Harold beamed, striding to the roller door at the back of the van. "Solid gold! Well, close enough. It'll be gold soon."

He unlocked the padlock and pushed the door upwards. Filbert and his crew were immediately blasted by the shockwave of stench emanating from the hold. As Filbert recovered his senses and turned back to the van, he made out a disheveled Stacy II, gagged and chained to six other miserable people in filthy business casual office attire. He met her eyes and she stared back at him silently with a desperate, pleading expression.

"People are going to pay gold for these?" he asked Harold. "They look like you dug them out of a septic tank."

"We might have to clean them up a bit," Harold admitted.

"Is this where you've been keeping them?"

"Yeah," Harold replied, wrinkling his nose. "Now you see why we need a new base of operations?"

"Preferably one with a toilet," Annabel remarked.

Harold rolled his eyes. "Whatever."

Filbert broke eye contact with Stacy II and nodded back towards the warehouse. "Well," he said, "guess you better bring them inside."

--

"How do we get rid of them?" Annabel whispered, subtly pointing her chin at in the direction of doomsquad69.

Filbert surveyed the trio. The two subordinates were playing a game involving jumping between the coffee table and the couch, and Harold was struggling to carry an entire week's worth of communal rations out of the pantry.

"I don't know," Filbert whispered back. "I didn't think we'd get this far."

"We might have to...you know."

"What?"

She held her hand up to her neck and made a tiny throat-cutting gesture.

Filbert looked at her, incredulously.

"Send them to Steve and let him figure it out," she explained.

"I thought you only wanted to kill statists."

Annabel shrugged. "They might be statists. Also, one of them stole my toothbrush."

Filbert scanned the scene in the warehouse. Blake and Archibald were leaning against a wall, muttering to each other and looking displeased at the loss of their couch. If he didn't take action soon, he wouldn't be surprised to find a mutiny on his hands. While he didn't particularly want to kill doomsquad69, it seemed like the most practical way of resolving the situation. After all, they'd seen his headquarters now and he didn't exactly trust their approach to operational security.

"Pleeeeaaase?" Annabel pleaded, batting her eyelashes at him.

Filbert sighed and nodded. "Fine," he conceded.

Annabel broke out into a gorgeous smile. "Thanks, Filbert!" she replied. "I'll go tell the others."

Filbert struggled internally as he watched her saunter around to the other members of the team and deliver the news. His eyes wandered to the corner where they were keeping Stacy II and the other prisoners. She hadn't stopped staring at him, her piercing glare boring a hole in his skull. He sighed, got up, and strolled nonchalantly to the armory.

---

Filbert reaches out to kidnapping cell

They bring Stacy II to warehouse

Feds show up (they followed kidnappers?)

Shoot-out with feds

Kidnapping cell turns on Filbert's crew - turns out they were funded by Sullivan

Sullivan's take: A little bit of chaos is good for the intelligence apparatus, but he couldn't allow her to become CE
