# 74. Good knowing you

"They're parachutes!" Russell exclaimed. "Look!"

Stacy groaned. She didn't feel like looking. Thirty-six hours of insanely high g-forces had left her body feeling like it needed a rebuild. Her fluids had settled in all the wrong places and she was pretty sure some of her bearings had deformed. She needed some sort of...monkeybot spa.

"Just shake it off," Russell advised. "You really gotta check this out."

Stacy unbuckled her harness, floated out of her chair, and shook her limbs a little. To her surprise, it really did seem to help. She coasted to the window and looked outside.

Russell was right. There wasn't a Dyson sphere. There wasn't a papier mache structure. Instead, there were billions, possibly trillions, of...parachutes. Enormous, octagonal kites, tethered to small, barely-visible payloads, all floating in space and pointed in the direction of Sirius's dim glow.

"Whoa," she gasped. "That's..."

"A lot of parachutes?" Russell suggested.

"Beautiful," she finished.

Russell shrugged. "Do you see that one?" he asked, pointing in the distance. "It's coming towards us."

Stacy zoomed her vision in the direction he was pointing. Sure enough, one of the parachutes had tilted its canopy in their direction, and was rapidly moving towards them as if propelled by an invisible wind.

"Do we have any weapons?" she asked.

Russell shook his head. "We weren't supposed to make contact," he replied.

She bit her lip. It was tougher than her original human lip, like Steve had used some cheap material originally destined to become rubber bands. If they weren't supposed to make contact, why did the flight plan have them decelerating so much?

"Let's hope they're friendly," she said.

"They're never friendly," Russell responded cooly.

---

With no sense of scale, Stacy found it impossible to estimate the size or distance of the kite. It just kept approaching and growing, until it blocked out an enormous swath of space, and still it grew.

"How big is it?" she asked Russell.

"No idea," he responded in awe. "Must be hundreds of kilometers across. Like a...Tasmania."

The payload was clearer now. It was a doughnut, and appeared to be spinning.

"What's that?" she asked.

Russell scratched his head. "You see a spinning thing in space, you think artifical gravity. Long-term habitation."

She looked at him, wordlessly.

"Chances are, there's life on that doughnut."

Stacy's mind filled with images of her on an operating table, screaming in agony while being vivisected by curious tentacled aliens.

"I don't like it," she stated. "Punch the throttle and let's get out of here."

Russell looked up. The stars were gone - all obscured by the enormous black canopy of the octagonal parachute. Every other direction was similarly filled with parachutes.

"I bet we can punch through the chute," Stacy said.

"Would you bet your life? If it's strong enough to damage the ship..."

As she chewed her rubbery lip in thought, a blast appeared on the stationary platform connecting the doughnut to the parachute.

"What was that?" she asked.

Russell didn't reply. A few moments later, the answer became clear. The ship was rocked with a dull _thud_. They looked out the window.

A tether now ran from them to the doughnut.

"Goddamn it," Russell muttered.

"Good knowing you," Stacy replied.
