# 78. Mum

"We come in peace," Russell announced to the pair of alien intruders. "Take us to your leader."

Stacy couldn't help but laugh. "You're such a dork," she told him.

The intruders looked at the monkeybots suspiciously as the one who'd dropped his gun bent down to pick it up again.

"Uh," said the other one. "Yeah, I guess we can do that. You're not gonna kill her, are you?"

Stacy blinked. Her? She had thought that Steve's people only came in one sex.

"No," she said. "We're not gonna kill her."

"Well all right then," shrugged the gun-dropper. "Follow us."

The other guard leveled his gun towards the pair and backed slowly out of the bridge. Stacy and Russell followed, and the gun-dropper brought up the rear. In single file, they worked their way out of the ship where the monkeybots had spent the past six weeks, and into the labyrinthine corridors of the Canberra-sized space doughnut.

---

A few minutes into the walk, Stacy's relentless questioning and flattery had already caused their security escorts to relax their guard and become more akin to tour guides.

"What's that?" Stacy asked, pointing at the escalator in front of them.

"We call them 'automatic stairs,' explained the leading guard.

"How incredible," Stacy lied. "Where we come from, they only have the normal kind of stairs."

The guard puffed his chest out proudly in recognition of his civilization's superior technology, possibly either forgetting or not realizing that he was conversing with a pair of sentient alien robots.

"There's plenty more impressive stuff than that," he said. "Trust me."

As the escalator emerged out of the subterranean maze, Stacy assumed that she saw what he meant. It was like stepping out into a quaint village in the countryside, except the countryside curved round overhead in an enormous hoop, and the village was in space. They were standing on the outer wall of the mostly-transparent doughnut, heads pointed in towards the center. On her left, beyond the fields and trees, all she could see was the gigantic parachute-shaped solar sail. On the right, through the doughnut wall, was the rest of the solar system. Though mostly obscured by the millions of other solar sails, she could just make out the faint glimmer of Sirius in the distance.

"Wow," she gasped. "I see what you mean."

"Hmm?" asked the guard. "I haven't shown you yet."

Stacy and Russell shared a confused look and followed the guards down a cobblestone path. The route meandered through orchards of unfamiliar fruit trees and past paddocks containing docile alien livestock. Eventually, they came to a large stone building that resembled an old manor house.

"You ready?" asked the guard excitedly, leading them to the front door.

Stacy and Russell nodded in anticipation.

The guard pulled a badge from his belt and held it up to a scanner next to the front door. The scanner beeped and a small light on top of it flashed green. An audible clunk was heard of the door unlocking, and the guard opened it proudly.

"We call them keyless locks," he explained.

"Wow," Stacy gushed.

"Incredible," Russell added. "How does it work?"

"Haven't the foggiest" the guard replied, stepping into the house. "Anyway, follow me. She's in here. Hey Mum!"

"Mum!" called the gun-dropper, following the leader into the house. "Got some robots or something here that want to talk to you!"

Stacy looked at Russell, who shrugged and said, "they seem nice."

"Probably won't vivisect us?" she asked.

"Probably," he responded. Repeating his shrug, he cocked his head and followed the two guards into the house.

Stacy sighed and stepped through the doorway, shutting the door behind her.

---

A few minutes later, Stacy found herself and Russell sitting in awkward silence in the living room, holding matching mugs of not-quite-coffee that the gun-dropper had provided them, listening to the pair being scolded by 'Mum'.

"How many times do I have to tell you?" boomed her loud matriarchial voice through the thick stone walls, "not to just bring people around uninvited? Do you not see the state of the place? Does this sort of thing simply not register?"

Stacy tried to hold back her laugher as the sounds of their captors' "sorry Mum"s and "I think it looks pretty good Mum"s were cut short by more reprimands.

"What is this jacket doing on the floor? And why are there bullets all over the table?"

Stacy couldn't help herself. She broke out in giggles, and so did Russell. They tried to regain their composure as the sound of heavy footsteps came booming down the corridor.

The door opened, and in walked Mum. She was roughly a foot shorter than the two guards, extremely heavyset, and unmistakably female. There really aren't just males, Stacy thought. She wondered what had gone wrong on Steve's planet.

"Please excuse the mess," Mum announced. "Boys, you know."

Stacy and Russell both nodded understandingly. "Oh yes," Stacy replied. "Boys."

Mum looked the two monkeybots up and down, in great detail. Her gaze lingered on Stacy's face, inspecting the camera lenses hidden behind her pale blue irises. "Can you do this?" she asked, holding up a hand and touching each finger to her thumb in turn.

Stacy and Russell each held up a hand and performed the exercise easily.

"Remarkable," Mum responded. "The degrees of freedom...I've never seen anything like it. And you know who you are?"

Stacy glanced at Russell, who was trying to hold back a smirk. "I'm Russell," he introduced himself.

"And I'm Stacy," she added.

"Right, you know your names. But are you sentient?"

Stacy had pondered that very question since the first time she'd met Steve in the diner. "I wouldn't know how to begin answering that," she replied. "Are you?"

Mum laughed. "Got me there. I'm Joanne. You can call me Mum."

She held out her hand, and Stacy and Russell shook it in turn.

"Where did you come from?" Mum asked.

Stacy opened her mouth, and realized she couldn't even begin to describe the location of her solar system and the digital location of StevieNix within it. "Earth," she said simply, and shut her mouth.

Mum raised an eyebrow and looked at Russell for more explanation.

"It's the third planet from Sol."

"Sol...Sol...How far away is it?"

"Not that far," Russell replied. "It only took us six weeks to get here."

Mum laughed. "Judging by the g's you were pulling in your decel, that could actually be quite far."

Stacy's stomach churned at the memory of the body-crushing deceleration. "It's still in your neighbourhood," she said. "That's why we were sent here. To see why Sirius had gone dark."

Mum was ignoring her and had walked over to a bookcase and picked out an enormous volume with the words "Encyclopedia Galactica" emblazoned on the cover.

"Sol...Sol..." she repeated. "How many planets does it have?"

"Nine," Russell responded. "Or eight," he corrected himself. "Depending on who you ask."

Mum gave him a skeptical glance as she flipped through the pages of the encyclopedia. Stacy guessed she wasn't used to receiving an ambiguous answer to that question.

"And what type of star is it?" Mum asked.

"A yellow one," Russell replied helpfully. "Medium size."

Mum gave him another skeptical glance and continued flipping through the encyclopedia. After a few moments, she exclaimed, "found it!"

Stacy was impressed. They hadn't given her much to go on.

Mum furrowed her brow. "Third planet from the sun?" she asked, without looking up from the book.

"Yes," Stacy and Russell replied simultaneously.

"Atmosphere is mostly nitrogen, surface is mostly water?"

"Yes," Russell responded before Stacy could remember Earth's atospheric composition.

Mum remained silent as she read the article. Stacy considered zooming in on the page, but the book was at the wrong angle.

"What does it say?" she asked.

Mum held up her finger to silence her and kept reading.

Eventually, she looked up and shut the book with a thud.

"Boys!" she called. The two guards from before filid into the room, followed by a half-dozen other similar-looking young males.

"Arrest them," Mum announced. The boys looked at her, bewildered.

"They've escaped," Mum explained, "from a penal colony."
