# 79. El Dorado

"FEDSEC wants a full blueprint for the orbital ring," Murdoch announced to Allen, shutting his office door behind him. "And written explanations of all unusual features, particularly anything that could be used to effect a launch into space."

Allen rubbed his eyes with his hand. "The screws are on to us," he groaned.

Murdoch nodded. "Seems they've figured it out, yeah."

"How long do we have to escape this godforsaken prison planet?"

"They're still poking around for probable cause," Murdoch replied hopefully.

Allen laughed. "So like, a day? This whole place is the El Dorado of probable cause. The streets are practically paved with damning evidence."

Murdoch chuckled at the reference to a particularly entertaining episode of the Great Meme Competition, before remembering the severity of their predicament.

"Yeah," he said. "A day sounds right."

Allen straightened up. "Do we have a habitat?"

Murdoch shook his head. "Not quite. Xavier's boys haven't figured out how to grow our plants yet. We can build a warship, though. We'll need to bring all our food and air with us and hope to resupply before it runs out."

"God damn it," Allen replied. "That's not ideal, is it?"

"No," Murdoch said. "No, it's not."

"Where can we even resupply?" Allen asked. "It's not like there's a gas station on every corner out there."

"Our best bet," Murdoch stated, "is Sirius. It's close, we know there's life, and we can call ahead to Stacy and Russell."

Allen nodded, resignedly. This was way more rushed than he'd hoped for. The two ancient prisoners looked at each other in silence for some time, each playing through the scenario in their heads, trying to figure out a way to gain personal advantage while acknowledging their utter reliance on the other.

"We should split up," Allen suggested. "Two warships. Less of a single point of failure."

"Great idea," Murdoch replied. "I'll take Steve and StevieNix. You can keep your aligned souls."

Allen had anticipated this. "Too risky," he objected. "If something goes wrong with your ship, all of StevieNix is gone. Better to split it in half."

Murdoch narrowed his eyes. "Planets don't split in half," he pointed out.

Allen fought to hold back his smile. "But space does," he replied. "We've already split it, remember? There's the CORP and the rest. I'll take the CORP."

"That's okay," Murdoch replied simply. "You can keep the rest of StevieNix. I'll take the CORP."

"You can keep Vincent," Allen offered.

"I'm keeping the CORP," Murdoch insisted.

"You can keep Steve."

"The CORP is mine. You can have Gabe."

Allen paused. Murdoch had already figured this out. Aligned and useful souls be damned, it was clear that the technological innovation pouring out of the Cube of Realistic Physics was the real prize in StevieNix. As much as he didn't like to play hardball...

"I'll definitely take Gabe. But I need the CORP," he explained slowly, "to make sure Eternal Spring's technology works in space. We wouldn't want to run out of vitamins, would we?"

Murdoch gritted his teeth. "Why don't you just make all the vitamins beforehand? We're gonna have much bigger problems storing food."

Allen shook his head. "Can't. They'll expire. Really short shelf life."

Murdoch clenched his fist. Allen could see his face turning red with anger, but there was nothing he could do. His calculating nature meant he'd never risk putting all their eggs in the basket of a single warship, and his mortality rendered him utterly dependent on Eternal Spring. It didn't matter that the vitamin expiry date was obviously made up. Allen had him by the balls, and they both knew it.

"Fine," Murdoch finally conceded. "You take Gabe and the CORP. Get Xavier to build your zero-g vitamin factory or whatever. But as soon as we dock at Sirius, you give it right back. I'll have Steve build an independent StevieNix for you in the meantime."

"Of course," Allen smiled. "Sounds like a great plan."

"We launch at 4am. Be packed."

"Will do!" Allen nodded cheerfully. "Oh yeah, I need one more thing."

Murdoch glared at him. "What's that?" he asked.

"I need a monkeybot," Allen said. "To help me run the CORP."

"You're not having Vincent," Murdoch reiterated. "He's mine."

"That's okay," Allen said. "I had someone else in mind. Is it okay if I go down to the monkeybot factory and drop in a soul?"

"Whatever," Murdoch said, getting out of his chair and heading for the door. "Just make sure they're not absolutely unhinged."

Allen laughed. "They're all unhinged, Declan. That was the entire point."

Murdoch shook his head and walked out. "See you at four, Maurice."
