# Chapter 8 - The Fall

The hardest part about creating an artificial intelligence is creating an artificial intelligence. The second hardest part is making sure your artificial intelligence doesn't kill you. This problem is called "alignment", and is particularly important if you plan on selecting your AI for psychotic warfaring personality traits before arming it with enough firepower to destroy seventeen solar systems and the entire interstellar civilization that colonized them.

But that was a problem for later. For now, Steve's job was to create the AI in the first place.

He took a sabbatical and moved in to a purpose-built lab in Murdoch Heavy Industries' research division. (Gabe elected to remain at the university, but spent so much time at the lab he may as well have been working there too.) He cloned a fresh copy of StevieNix, and uploaded it onto a state-of-the-art datacenter of unfathomable compute power provided by Murdoch. Then the fun began.

The obvious candidate was the great apes. He'd spent a great deal of time perfecting their hands, which were vastly better suited to tool use than any appendages of the other species in StevieNix. With some minor adjustments, he managed to make them walk upright in the manner of his own people, which allowed them to carry tools (primarily weaponry) around with them as they walked.

The brain was the hard part. While enlarging their brains was rather trivial, getting them to develop anything akin to intelligence was another story.

When genetic engineering, Steve found it easier to think from the perspective of the genes than of the organisms themselves. He switched his thinking to a mode where the genes were the real drivers of progress, and the organisms were just the tools that the genes used to ensure their reproduction. A gene for greater intelligence would be successful if and only if the resultant organism used that greater intelligence to spread the gene, rather than to indulge in esoteric hobbies or pine about the state of the world (many such cases arose). Combinations of genes became critically important, and as the number of combinations increased, progress slowed down. Steve was in over his head.

"What if", Gabe suggested, "instead of trying to genetically engineer them directly, you engineer their environment?"

"What do you mean?" asked an impatient and exhausted Steve.

"Lean harder on the evolution mechanic. You're barely using any of this compute power. Spin up a couple million of these monkeys, and subject them to brutal evolutionary pressure. Come back in a week. If any of those poor apes are still alive, I bet they'll be pretty smart."

It wasn't a bad idea. Steve felt bad for his apes, but not bad enough to not try it. But what would qualify as brutal evolutionary pressure?

Steve settled on snakes. For starters, it was a lot easier to make a scary snake than a sentient monkey. He produced endless varieties of snakes. Snakes that hid in trees. Snakes that swam. Venemous snakes. Gargantuan snakes that could wrap around a monkey, crush it to death, and swallow it whole. Snake predation became the number one killer of his apes.

The changes were small at first, but he watched them compound. First, the apes developed extremely keen vision, with full colour and depth perception. Then, they developed something incredible - a primitive language, which they used to communicate about the presence or lack of snakes in various areas. Steve sent more snakes. The apes responded by developing an entire theory of snakes - which ones were venemous, which ones were harmless, where and when you might encounter them, etc. - which they taught their young. Upon ingesting the body of serpentine knowledge, the young apes wouldn't have to experience the dangers of the snakes themselves to know how to avoid their dangers.

Steve learned their primitive language, and as he listened to one of the snake theory lessons, made a profound discovery.

> "If you see a brown snake, run away" explained the elder ape.
> "What if I see a very little brown snake?" asked the young ape.
> "The very little ones are the most dangerous, as they inject all their venom at once."
> "Can't I just trap it or drop a rock on it or something?"

Steve paused the sim and sat in slack-jawed wonder. The younger ape was imagining himself encountering a snake. He was running a simulation of himself in his own brain. The snake gambit had worked - his apes had achieved sentience.
