# 80. The CORP Conundrum

Vincent's voice popped into Xavier's head. "Xavier!" he yelled. "Wake up!"

Xavier awoke with a jolt. He'd been snoozing at his desk, part-way through working on a microgravity-compatible waste recycling system.

"What is it, dad?" he asked, groggily.

"You need to leave. Get out of the CORP, now."

Xavier blinked and looked out the window at the millions of ships and habitats that made up the Anarchist community within the Cube of Realistic Physics. The majority of his people had long given up traveling between the two physics engines, preferring to settle in the cube where there was money to be made and no chance of statist interference. They had developed fusion engines, modular habitats, and loose communities that echoed the cantonal system of the floating islands back on Earth.

"Why?" he asked.

"They're splitting StevieNix in half. Allen's taking the CORP. Steve and I are sticking with Murdoch and the rest of StevieNix."

"Who's Allen?"

"He's an asshole," Vincent explained. "Trust me, you don't want to be stuck with him as your God."

"So after he takes the CORP, we can't go back to regular StevieNix?"

"That's right."

"How much time do we have?" Xavier asked.

"Hours," replied his dad.

Xavier chewed his thumb. Hours was plenty of time, for him. His old space-plane still worked. He didn't need to pack much. He could probably launch and be back in regular StevieNix in under twenty minutes. Fly back to Antarctica and fire up the old ASIC he'd left there. He could even reconnect with his mom and siblings, and see what his old friends Filbert and Stacy II were up to.

But hours wasn't enough time for everyone else. The habitats had been built for Realistic Physics - they wouldn't work outside of the cube. And even if they did, most people wouldn't want to leave. After years of being chased around, they'd finally found a home where they were safe. So what if their new God was going to be an asshole? And why should they take Vincent's word on that anyway?

"I can hear you" his dad said, butting into his thoughts. "I promise you, Allen is the worst. Don't think, just leave."

"I can't" Xavier replied, looking back out the window. "I can't leave them."

"Please," his dad pleaded. "Just take my word on this."

"They moved here because of me," Xavier objected.

"I can't lose you again."

"I'm sorry, dad" Xavier replied finally. "I can't abandon them. Try to look out for us up there, okay? Figure out something with this Allen guy. I'm sure he can be reasoned with."

He heard his dad swear, followed by the clunk of his headset being slammed down onto a desk. Then, silence.

Well, Xavier figured, it would be nice to have his thoughts to himself again. With any luck, this Allen guy wouldn't be be so intrusive.
