# 9. The Dogs of War

There was a wide gap between "sentient enough to reason about hypothetical snake encounters" and "capable of winning an interstellar war without destroying the civilization that birthed them", but Steve was nonetheless pleased with his progress. The next hurdle, however, proved to be even greater: Aggression.

Many of the species in StevieNix exhibited a basic form of aggression. Males would often fight each other to control access to females or food, and this was certainly true of the great apes. The design brief, however, wasn't for a species aggressive enough to kill for mere mating access or resources, but for a species aggressive enough to kill out of sheer love for their supernatural creator. This called for divine intervention, so Steve intervened.

His first many attempts at genetically engineering aggression failed miserably. Senseless bloodshed overwhelmed any primitive societies his beings had managed to form. Small genetic tweaks often resulted in family members killing each other on whims. At one point, the entire species was so overwhelmed with violence that he elected to wipe the slate clean in a global cataclysm and start again from the least aggressive seed population he could find.

As usual, the sexual reproduction mechanic was thwarting him. By far, the most efficient way for an aggression gene to ensure its own reproduction was to convince its organism to channel said aggression into directly propogating its genetic material. This resulted almost invariably in the larger, stronger males of the species forcing themselves upon the smaller, weaker females. While this strategy was evolutionarily successful from the perspective of the genes surrounding aggression and strength, it was otherwise an unmitigated dysgenic disaster.

The entire idea of sexual reproduction was to accelerate evolution by allowing the organisms to evaluate each other and combine their genetic material with those deemed most fit. The freedom to evaluate the counterparty's fitness and select with whom to reproduce was foundational, and typically drove the species towards greater intelligence, greater health, and (in Steve's opinion) greater aesthetic appeal. The high aggression subgroups which lost that freedom quickly and relentlessly degenerated into stupid, unhealthy, ugly brutes who channeled any and all efforts into copulation.

"What do I do now?" he asked Gabe.

Gabe tilted his chair back and stroked his chin. "It is a trkcy one, isn't it? I told you, sexual reproduction is more trouble than it's worth."

"Not helpful, Gabe."

Gabe set his chair back down and a wry grin spread over his face. "You could try taking a leaf out of Murdoch's book?"

"What, give them fusion reactors and see if that solves the problem?"

Gabe laughed and put on his best Irish accent. "Feckin' academics! Haven't you heard a word I've said? Fear of violent retribution! It's the cornerstone upon which all civilization is built! It's the lynchpin!" He thumped the table for effect.

"Huh" responded Steve. "Hmm."

His first attempts at genetically engineering violent retribution against males who engaged in forced reproduction failed almost immediately. Violence, he discovered, comes at high cost to the organism. Genes that endowed their male bearers with a propensity to engage in violent retribution soon found themselves bred out as their organisms perished in their serial violent encounters. He needed something else.

Finally, as he once again switched his mode of thinking to the perspective of the gene, he hit upon a possible strategy. The survival of the organism, he remembered, was only of tangential importance. The survival and propagation of the gene was the utmost priority.

He designed a gene that, while mostly inert in females, encouraged its male bearers to engage in violent retribution solely against violators of their female relatives. As there was a high probability that those female relatives would carry the same gene, it no longer mattered as much if this violent retribution led to the possibility of the male organism perishing - the gene would live on in the females, and be passed down to her (hopefully fitter now that she could mate-select) offspring. By ignoring sexual violence against females to whom he had no relation, the organism could also limit his lifetime violent encounters to a level that gave him a chance of reproducing as well. This was vastly more advanced than the primitive mating-related violence found in other species, and Steve was quite proud of himself for having come up with it.

The introduction of this gene led to centuries of carnage. In some subgroups, it failed altogether and they regressed to the simpler, dysgenic reproduction strategy. In the others, it resulted in generations of blood feud. Upon a female being violated, all of her male relatives would retaliate against the transgressor, as designed. The second-order effects, however, were substantial.

The now-perished transgressor's family, in most cases, would choose to retaliate. In most cases, an intergenerational vendetta would arise. Each family recruited friends and allies to help exterminate the others. The conflict would continue until one of the two families had been entirely eradicated. The survivors, understanding the consequences, tended to avoid the violent reproduction strategy and policed their own ranks to discourage it.

Thus, the first love-motivated warfaring civilizations arose.

When Steve reported this result to Murdoch, Murdoch leapt out of his chair and punched the air. "You've done it, kiddo! The dogs of war have been bred!"
