## 0. Three Types of People

Most of the New Sealand population chose to stick with Russell in the People's Republic. He drafted the world's simplest constitution - all citizens were entitled to a vote, and all other laws would be established by referendum. He had the LLM create a blockchain-based app, through which people could propose and vote on legislation. Any proposed legislation that met the 50% threshold, became law. Voting was mandatory.

The first law to pass wasn't a law at all, but a declaration of human rights. Modelled after the American Bill of Rights and the UN Declaration of Human Rights, it enumerated both a list of natural rights - including the freedoms of speech, opinion, and peaceful assembly, and positive rights - including the right to education, social security, and asylum. Over time, amendments were passed which slowly increased the list of rights.

A court system was established, with regional, district, and supreme courts. Laws were enforced by police, and criminal charges were brought in front of judges by public prosecutors. Prosecutors who failed to prosecute criminals or judges who made unpopular judgments were voted out via referendum.

The system was familiar, and popular. The population of the People's Republic grew first into the hundreds of thousands, and then to the millions.

The currency, as in the other entities of New Sealand, was gold. To support the burgeoning population, trillions of robotic worms burrowed for miles under the ocean floor, searching for and mining gold. Russell distributed the gold equitably to the population, who happily traded it for food, goods, and services. Before long, companies situated in the People's Republic became major players in the international markets for gold, food, and luxury goods.

The high standard of living and enormous quantity of public funds made the People's Republic an attractive destination for doctors, educators, and scientists the world over. Within a generation, the People's Republic boasted some of the best schools, universities, and hospitals on the planet.

---

The next most popular entity was the Theocratic Dominion. Stacy, widely seen as a prophet, was held in a religious reverence which she directly parlayed into a divine right to rule.

Once again, a police force was created in order to enforce the law. Laws were drafted by Stacy, in response to grievances that were brought before her. She thus simultaneously acted as both judge and legislator, occasionally blending the roles by passing judgments for violations of laws that did not yet exist. L'état, c'était Stacy.

Her legal system was inspired by a variant of an Australian convict's ballad that her dad used to sing to her as a child - upon conviction of a crime, the result of a coinflip would determine if the convict was sentenced to death, or transportation. Death was administered by hanging; transportation involved a one-way trip to the New Australia Penal Colony in a specially designed hyperloop pod that forced the convict out upon reaching the island. There were no guards on New Australia, but it was a thousand kilometers from any other landmass, filled with wild animals, and very cold. A third option - pardon - was reserved for cases where Stacy was in a forgiving mood, and the crime didn't seem to merit death or transportation. It was rarely employed.

The population in Stacy's Theocratic Dominion was extremely well behaved. After the first few public executions and deportations, the people got the idea - any misbehaviour, no matter how minor, even if it didn't violate any laws at the time, could result in death or exile. Anyone who had the remotest criminal intent moved away, and Stacy was left with one of the largest, purest populations of honest hardworking individuals in the world.

Although most business owners initially expressed skepticism over doing business in a jurisdiction with a nondeterministic legal system, many eventually came to realize that Stacy's rulings were anything but arbitrary. Her moral framework was, after all, explicitly laid out in the Newer Testament (not to mention her large collection of social media posts). So long as a business obeyed its contractual obligations, dealt honestly, and avoided polluting the environment or poisoning people with endocrine disruptors, the owners were on fairly solid ground. Many found the system in practice to be more predictable and less capricious than the jury-centric systems in Old World jurisdictions. This, combined with the low-tax low-regulation environment, propelled the Theocratic Dominion to become a global favourite jurisdiction for large, multinational corporations.

---

Only the bravest chose to live with Vincent in the Anarchy. Vincent rejected state authority as being morally illegitimate, indistinguishable from rule by mafia or warlord. In his view, states were granted power on the basis of two superstitions: That commands are somehow legitimate when they're labeled as "laws", and that violent thugs somehow become upstanding citizens when dressed in uniforms, given badges, and told to enforce those "laws". The cornerstone of his moral code was the Non-Aggression Principle (NAP), which states that it is immoral to initiate the use of force upon another person or their property. As states regularly violated the NAP, they were immoral. QED.

Of course, once aggression had been initiated, violence was on the table. Any means at all could be justified to neutralize an aggressor - up to, and including, vigilante execution. In fact, Vincent considered thoughtful participation in vigilante lynch mobs to be a courageous exercise of civic duty, and worked hard to inspire the population to share his inclination. In practice, lynchings were rare - partially because the brutality of the punishment discouraged antisocial behaviour, and partially because Vincent set immigration policy by controlling the only international hyperloop station.

Vincent was the first to admit that, in most parts of the world, an anarchist paradise would likely descend rapidly into a warlord-dominated hellhole (ie. a conventional state.) But he dared to dream, that by cultivating a virtuous population, true freedom from state predation could be achieved.

Unencumbered by the responsibilities of running a state, Vincent spent his time as he preferred - building islands. He and his crew adopted a policy - if any group of people came to them with a neat-enough sounding idea for an autonomous NAP-compliant canton, they'd build the islands necessary to make it happen. Cantons were constructed as conglomerations of small, mobile, hexagonal islands. This design was to encourage secessionism - if an internal dispute occurred within a canton, opposing divisions could simply float apart rather than resort to violence. This extended all the way down to to the household level, and it was common to see individual homesteads, floating alone, adorned with a single house, a barn, and a small collection of livestock.

Naturally, cantons could set their own immigration policy within the Anarchy of New Sealand. Initially, these were mostly set according to hyper-local Old World ethnicities, and cantons such as New Inverness, New Vienna, and New Gangnam became major forces. Over time, as the possibilities began to sink in, more creatively constructed cantons arose.

A group of venture capitalists, frustrated with the growing difficulty of convincing tech talent to move to a slowly disintegrating California, set up the Whale Fund. Modelled after a miniature San Francisco Bay Area, it functioned as a startup accelerator. The fund took a 10% stake in any locally-founded companies, in exchange for capital and an administrative apparatus dedicated to building the world's most desirable location for highly talented individuals. The immigration exam involved an IQ test and an AI physiognomy scan. The unofficial motto was "live free; build free; throw junkies into the Pacific."

The Whale Fund was immensely successful. Hungry founders and fed-up tech workers flocked to the arc of islands in the Pacific. The canton's business model was endlessly copied and tweaked by competing VCs, chasing after the masses of skilled workers that were rapidly evaporating out of the failed Golden State.

The second major mission-focused canton was Jurrasic Park. A group of eccentric biologists approached Vincent with the proposal of using CRISPR to create useful dinosaurs by combining dinosaur DNA from the StevieNix source code with the DNA of modern domesticated animals. Vincent was skeptical that they'd succeed, but loved their attitude. He and his crew spent weeks fabricating for them a vast, floating, rainforested conglomeration the size of Sicily. Against all odds, the biologists pulled it off.

Their first successful creation was a species of protoceratops ("protops") that was useful for both eggs and meat. Around the size of a domestic cow, they spent their days rummaging around in the undergrowth, gorging themselves on plant matter, before dutifully returning home each evening to lay a huge, delicious, nutritionally balanced egg. Their versatile, plant-based diets, easygoing domesticated nature, imperviousness to predation, and dependable daily food production quickly made them a homesteading favourite.

Their next creation was a transport dinosaur - the deinonychus ("runner"). Built like a large velociraptor, each runner could carry a human being on its back at speeds of up to ninety kilometers per hour. Its carnivorous diet was a challenge, but the Jurrasic Park biologists were soon relieved to discover that it could subsist on a diet consisting almost entirely of protops eggs. The advent of rapid two-legged transportation meant that people could easily traverse difficult terrain without relying on roads, so Vincent and his crew increased the topographical complexity of future islands accordingly.

Runners became the dominant form of transport throughout many cantons, until the biologists made their next major breakthrough - the quetzalcoatlus ("ketzel"). A ketzel resembled a dragon crossed with a pelican, had a wingspan of 12 meters, and could carry two adult humans up to a thousand kilometers in a single flight. With temperaments lifted straight out of golden retrievers, ketzels and runners were adopted en masse into rural and suburban households as not just modes of transportation, but pets.

The most common cantonal configuration became the village canton - a confederation of ten to twenty self-sufficient multi-generational family homesteads, each with several protops, surrounding a small urban center consisting of a school, church, clinic, and market. Village cantons rarely got large enough to contain distances not easily commutable by runner, or to exceed populations where people didn't all know each other. Village cantons would often float in orbit around larger, business-oriented cantons, to which workers would commute via ketzel.

Just as leaders naturally emerge in any situation where humans need to coordinate, so too did leaders naturally emerge in the cantons. Elections and power struggles were rare - instead, most villages started as projects by two or three friends, one of whom was already the natural leader. As a leader's reputation for fair dealing and good judgment grew, so too did the village. If a leader ever took a turn towards the despotic, the unimpressed villagers would simply unmoor and float away. A market for leadership thus emerged, the likes of which had never before been seen on land.

The third major mission-focused canton was founded by Vincent's son, Xavier, at the age of sixteen.
